hey everyone so welcome to this
a900 Azure fundamentals study cram
reloaded or the 2022 version so this is
an update to the study cram I posted
back in June 2020 that's had about
150,000 views and I just finished
creating an entire
a900 study course this is 8 and 1 half
hours of complete training so this was
the original study pram that this is
replacing and then there's the course
that I just posted a few days ago that's
8 and 1/2 hours it's every single skill
that's assessed and there is a download
of the complete
handout so that download has all of the
different
links for the different pieces of
information it has the whiteboards of
all those detailed lessons and so that I
would recommend you go and watch so the
idea is go through that complete course
it's 8 and 1 half hours of your life but
it will put you in a great position and
then watch this maybe a few hours before
the course maybe watch it a couple of
times just to refresh and get those
ideas back in your brain as always this
is useful please do go ahead like
subscribe comment and share and you can
hit the Bell icon to get notified of new
updates so this is the cram for the
a900 exam so that a 900 exam is what's
going to go ahead and get you that Azure
fundamental certification so we can go
to the a900 site and it talks about
what's kind of covered in the exam and
the fact that it's going to get you that
Azure fundamental
certification what's great about this
page is well yes you can go and schedule
the exam but it has the skills measured
document so you can download this
document and what it's going to do is
walk through every single skill that is
going to be assessed so ideally you want
to be able to download this document and
tick off each of those individual things
to feel confident yes I'm ready I I know
all of these things that I'm going to
get tested on and this is the structure
of that 8 and 1/ half hour course
there's basically a lesson per each of
these skills assessed then there's
actually a link to the Microsoft
learning path so yes I've created that
full YouTube call
but i' recommend you do this as well
it's a great course obviously it's text
based there's a few little videos
sprinkled in but it does have some
exercises you can perform as well so if
you have the time definitely would
recommend you get to go through that as
well to really just put yourself in as
good a position as possible the more
resources you can get uh the better
position you're going to be in so with
that said let's kind of jump over and
really just start cramming so we think
about about the cloud Azure is a cloud
service and we use this term the cloud
so really when we think about a
cloud what are we really talking about
so understand what are the key
principles and features we expect from a
cloud we expect to see
agility so agility in terms of there's
lots of different requirements we have
there's lots of different types of
service so I want to be able to use the
right service that meets my exact goal
my needs might evolve so I want to be
able to change what I'm doing as my
needs change I don't want to be stuck
with a certain technology but also my
usage amount is going to fluctuate over
time so agility is all about types of
service and amount of service and that
really leads into this idea of kind of
consumption
based I want to pay for what I'm
actually using at any given second
because again that agility there's
seasonality the amount of work may vary
by hour or day or week or year month
maybe multiple years so I want to be
able to handle that by only paying for
what I need at any moment in
time we think about high availability ha
I want to make sure that yes the basic
infrastructure that my service is
running on is resilient to certain types
of failure but it's also mechanisms in
place to help me architect my services
to have high availability maybe
Distributing them over different racks
maybe Distributing them over different
data centers in a small area maybe
spread over data centers with hundreds
of miles between them we also think
about Disaster Recovery which builds
into that high availability but this
time we definitely want that big
distance I want big distances hundreds
of miles so if there was some natural
disaster it's not going to impact all of
our
deployments and that agility I talked
about
scalability I don't want to worry about
running out I don't want these little
islands of resource that this island
could run out when we think about the
cloud we think about pulling resources
together so this massive amount
available to me so there's always enough
resource to meet my
needs now when I think about a cloud so
this is just thinking okay these are the
definitions of a cloud there's different
types of cloud we often think about hey
yeah the public Cloud but that's not the
only type now
obviously there is public Cloud so I
have the idea of a public
Cloud EG Azure Azure is an example of a
public Cloud when I think about a public
Cloud this is typically externally
hosted by some provid
provider it's going to be multi-tenant
I.E it's not typically infrastructure
dedicated to me I might access it over
the internet now it doesn't have to be
exclusively over the Internet there are
certain ways I can get private
connectivity could be a VPN could be a
private connection but typically and by
default it's going to be internet
facing these are very much going to have
the idea of being consumption
based I expect to pay for what I'm using
that's going to be a key tenant of that
and I think about many
locations I'm going to be out to pick
well hey yes it's the cloud but we still
have to understand geography so I can be
maybe close to certain customers cuz
that latency thing the time things take
can be a big impact and I want to
distribute things around when I think
about Asia for example well there's this
huge number of regions so this is kind
of an infrastructure map that we
actually have available on the Azure
website if I skip the intro and just
explore the globe what we can see is
there's just a huge number of regions
available actually make it 2D to make it
quicker all of these little blue dots
these are regions these are all distinct
sets of infrastructure where capacity is
available all over the world so I can go
and create resources there so there's
just a massive amount of these available
to
me so that's the public Cloud But
realize I can also have private
Cloud now really what what is a
cloud take everything else Away really
what we're talking about is capacity
there's some capacity
that exposes a certain set of resources
that I can consume and there's going to
be certain apis and interfaces to
actually use that well likewise I can
have capacity on premises it could
explose certain resources like VMS or
containers and I have certain management
infrastructure to maybe facilitate the
idea of a cloud pooling things user self
service showback charge back all of
those types of things so here I could
have a private Cloud that's basically
running on my infrastructure so it's on
premises I might be able to do quots and
policies to help control but I'm using
my on premises
infrastructure so that's private cloud
and then we have the idea of hybrid
Cloud so as you would expect with hybrid
Cloud it's essentially both of them
maybe I'm
using private Cloud on premises to host
some work
maybe I'm using public Cloud for other
types of work maybe I run it on premises
but in busy times that variable load I
burst out and start using the cloud all
of those things are available to me so I
have these different types of cloud but
absolutely aure is an example of a
public
Cloud now with that there's things like
operational expenditure capital
expenditure and so those are all about
how we pay for things so I can often
think about anything on premises that's
typically going to be cap x capital
expenditure I.E I have to kind of pay
for it upfront I buy my server I buy my
license I buy my data center and then
depreciate it over a certain period of
time so I have these assets that has a
certain lifespan and the challenge with
that is we have to do all that
investment upfront so that can be fairly
painful
I can compare that to the public Cloud
what is going to be
Opex operational expenditure I pay for
it as I use it which this Opex really
plays into that consumption based nature
of the public Cloud I pay for what I use
there isn't this big upfront cost I pay
for it as I use it and that's really
powerful because with capex again I get
certain assets that I have to use I have
to use them for a certain period of time
to get my value for money and I lack a
certain amount of
flexibility whereas when it's Opex and I
pay for what I use I can change my mind
I can start using a certain type of
resource and then say actually that's
not the right one for me anymore delete
it create a new type I don't lose any
money I change for what I'm doing if I'm
using less I pay less if I'm using more
I pay
more so if I think of any type of
workload where there's some variable
load typically the public clouds could
be very uniquely suited for this to work
for example you think about scenarios
where maybe it's the idea that it's on
and off maybe I'm a tax company and I
only run for a few months a year maybe
I'm a startup company and I'm growing
really fast well do I want to go and pay
for all that Hardware up front when I
may fail
No Maybe just have these idea of
variable loads and I just want to pay
for what I'm using so there's all these
different scenarios where this
consumption based nature really is key
for this to be
successful so let's focus on this idea
of the public Cloud now one of the big
focuses we have around the public cloud
is this idea of shared
responsibilities that both the customer
I me using a and the provider Microsoft
they have certain responsibilities for
different aspects of the
service now that responsibility will
change depending on which service I'm
using we often think about there's
different layers to a complete solution
I can think sure there's things like
storage there's
Network there's the servers the compute
itself there's some type of hypervisor
that basically creates VMS I can use
then inside that VM there's an operating
system there's a runtime like net or
j2e then I get my
app and then my
data and realized that as a business the
things we really care about is the app
and the data that's what sets us apart
from other companies so that's where we
really want to be out to
focus so when I think about those layers
that are what we care
about if we think on
premises well we're
responsible for all of that so here the
customer is responsible for all of the
layers you may have different teams but
ultimately it's all you as the customer
when you start to move to the cloud you
typically start with i as infrastructure
as a service with infrastructure as a
service is I can really think about this
line there so now the hypervisor all of
the fabric the server the network the
storage well with is the responsibility
is let's just say Azure Microsoft as the
provider are responsible for all of
those things you don't you get a service
offered to you you don't manage any of
that what you get as the
customer is for what is inside
that virtual machine so that includes
things like hey I can pick the operating
system is that Windows is that Linux but
then there's all the responsibilities
for that okay responsibilities for that
means I'm worrying about things like
okay patching
it uh the
backup
config uh antivirus firewall the list
kind of goes on there's all these
responsibilities that I have but I have
full access to the operating system so I
have all of that
flexibility so in this world with IAS
we're really talking about kind of
virtual
machines and kind of virtual machine
scale sets which we're going to come
back to more detail of what those
services are but for those hey I have
full access to the operating system so I
have the most flexibility but I have all
the responsibility as well then we get
to platform as a service P so we here
the line of responsib
ability shifts all the way to there so
now Azure is
responsible for basically everything
there's still an operating system
there's still run times and all those
things happening I'm not responsible for
that I may not even see it depending on
the type of service what I'm responsible
for is my app and my
data so obviously if I'm a custom
service I'd rather use this as my
company what differentiates me as my app
and my data I don't really want to be in
the business of managing VMS and
worrying about backup and patching and
all of that stuff so if I can we like
this idea of p and you'll hear services
like or Azure container instances Azure
kubernetes Services app Services you'll
hear about things like
functions and logic apps serverless
offerings and again we're going to come
back to all of these but these are Pas
offerings and then finally I'm going do
this in a different color you have
software as a
service the whole point of p is it's
providing these blocks I can just focus
on my app and my data and it's this is
what provides the business function the
P service on its own does not provide a
business function with SAS it's
providing that business function for
example this could be Microsoft
365 it's providing in me SharePoint it's
providing me collaboration it's
providing me mail whatever that might
be it's all provided I don't have any
responsibility for the platform itself I
might do little things like administer
users to enable them for a feature but
I'm not patching exchange or patching
SharePoint there's Dynamics 365 there's
all different types of SAS there's third
party SAS Solutions but I am not
managing over those and again just the
key Point here is is I kind of want to
get as far that way as I can cuz I don't
want responsibility if I can get away
from
it okay so let's dive into really what
we think about when we think about AIA a
big focus is on kind of a as and
PAs and there's a kind of a joke there's
no such thing as the cloud it's just
someone else's PC and there's an element
of Truth to that if we think about that
idea of
capacity well I need capacity I need
compute some servers I need Network
switches to connect things together I
need some storage so that has to live in
some physical space I talked about
regions already that
flexibility to have many locations and
so a region is really one of the key
building blocks when we think about
Azure so let's explore
regions so I can really think about the
idea of AIA has many many regions I
showed them already and and I can think
about a specific
region is East us or west
us and it's made up of multiple physical
locations so I could think about okay
well I have a region
here and within that region there's
multiple physical
buildings now what really defines the
region is those buildings are all fairly
close together we talk about the idea of
this 2 millisecond latency envelope
don't worry about that too much it's
basically the longest amount of time
sank can take from the region to the
edge of the region to talk are they very
close together so I might have a region
like
East us and then there's lots and lots
of other regions this could be a
completely different region that would
have its own buildings that might be
West us for
example so we have all of these
different regions and the reason we have
different regions is well they might be
certain data sovereignty requirements I
might be in a certain country that
requires me to have my data remember and
my app in the same country so there's
requirements to host the data so by
having lots and lots of different
regions hey I can stand out my services
in a region in my country to meet data
sovereignty
requirements also I want multiple
regions so I can have Dr I want maybe
hundreds of
miles between them
so if there was some natural disaster
it's not going to impact my other
service also yes a latency is the
boundary of a region but might have
customers all throughout the world from
the customer to the region takes time so
I want to be able to put my services all
throughout the world maybe so there an
instance close to my customers so they
get a really nice experience when using
the
service
now I'm talking about Azure and regions
in Azure the reality is there's actually
more than one Azure
environment there are several what we
typically think about is kind of the
commercial like the regular Azure
commercial that we all have access to
that's kind of how we think about it
typically but there's actually multiple
regions it's not just that commercial
region and we can see this so if I jump
over for a second and we go and look at
a command prompt so if I just jump over
to this let's make a bit bigger for you
I can actually do a get
a
environment and notice what we see we
actually see there's Azure Cloud kind of
that regular commercial Cloud then
there's also a China
cloud and an Asia US Government Cloud
now there is also an Azure German Cloud
but that's actually getting a lot less
investment now because of changes to
regulations changes to just regular
regions we're not going to typically see
that used as much but certainly we can
think about well there's this China
cloud and this us gov Cloud so why are
there these separate regions and it's
really about compliance and certain
regulatory requirements that I need to
meet so yes we have commercial which has
a set of regions but then there's also
China now China has requirements that it
has to be operating by a Chinese company
so the China environment is actually
operated by 21 vonet and they basically
licensed the Azure technology so it has
its own sets of
regions and then obviously we have kind
of the US
gov which has its own sets of regions so
they each have their different sets of
regions us G for example has a whole
bunch of other regulatory standards that
it meets um for example sieges
there's a whole bunch of these available
for it but the idea is if I'm a company
maybe a government entity hey I have
certain additional requirements that are
not met by the commercial environment
well I would use the US gov if I'm a
Chinese company and I want my services
hosted in China I would use the China
environment which again has its own
regions has its own Azure ad as does US
gov so these are all
essentially completely separated they're
different physical facilities they're
different logically they're different
networks uh different identity providers
they are really isolated environments to
meet whatever regulatory requirements
that I may have for my particular
workloads and even when we look at the
regions you'll notice well some of them
are particular
environments so we have this idea we
have multiple regions for those
different reasons I want are
capabilities to have a big distance
between them regulatory hey I need the
region in the same country I am um just
hey I want it close to my customers so
these are all super
important and that idea of for Disaster
Recovery is actually a key concept so
there are pairings in Asia so certain
regions are paired and we can actually
go and look at these
pairings and what we can see is this is
showing us all of the pair pairings that
exist now what you're going to see here
is that the pairings are in the same
geopolitical boundary for example Asia
replicates to Asia Australia to
Australia Canada to Canada The Only
Exception is Brazil South currently goes
to South Central us this is because
Brazil only had one region so it had to
replicate outside of Brazil but South
Central us does not replicate to Brazil
if you go and look
you'll kind of see um South Central
actually
replicates to North Central us kind of
see those there so nothing ever
replicates outside of the US from that
capacity you also see got like the US
government regions here us gu Arizona
Iowa and you can also see those China
regions as well so we can actually see
those different environments as well
which all have so not Canada they all
have their own regions
so those pairings are used by certain
services so there are certain services
in Azure like storage and key vaol that
use those pairings just behind the
scenes so that's how it does that
resiliency additionally those pairings
are useful that if I was deploying my
own Services when Azure rolls out
updates it will not roll them out to
paired regions at the same time imagine
they introduced a problem with a
software update well you don't want to
take down um the primary and the Dr
region with the same update so it's
going to stagger those updates as
well so I can think about a region as a
really big blast zone if there was a
problem it shouldn't impact other
regions however even within a region as
we saw there's multiple physical
buildings and what happens in many
regions is those physical buildings will
they have independent
Power Cooling
and networking I
Communications so they're independent so
these are then exposed as availability
zones now there's more than three
buildings they can think about there's
lots of other buildings sitting in that
region for
example and I can now think that okay
great I could now put my services
distributed over multiple buildings so
now I have resilience see if an entire
building has a problem by Distributing
my services over multiple
buildings the way this is
exposed is we're going to have something
called a
subscription and for each region if it
supports availability zones you'll
actually see three availability zones
you'll see an az1 an az2 and an
az3 now that may
map like that for that subscription if I
had a second subscription for the same
region it will also see through
availability
zones but they might map to completely
different buildings um my A1 could be
that building my A2 could be that
building my A3 could be that one so
there's no consistency between different
subscriptions the whole point of this is
isolation within my subscription yes az1
will always be the same building A2
would always be the same one but there's
no consistency between different
subscriptions when I think about
Services services use these in different
ways for example some Services you will
see are
Zone
redundant if it's Zone redundant it
spans the availability zones just as
part of the service so it's
automatically just redundant there's
nothing I have to do other
services will be
zonal if it's zonal it gets created in a
specific availability zone so I tell it
the availability Zone and it will go to
that availability Zone but to get
resiliency i' need to create another
instance in a different a because the
whole point is I want to be distributed
over multiple buildings so some Services
it's just native I can say hey I want to
be Z redundant and it will make it
resilient others have to get pinned to a
particular Zone and then I need to
create multiple instances to get that
protection if something happened to a
building like a VM a VM cannot span
availability zones a VM can't exist in
multiple buildings so i' would have to
create zonal VMS and I'd create maybe
three one in A1 one in a 2 one in A3
that all provide the same service we can
see this so if we jump
over if I actually go and look at a
certain type of resource for example if
I was to look at a public IP address
when we create a public IP we actually
get the
choice so I can say down here at the
bottom availability Zone and it's
letting me pick the default is Zone
redundant but also I could say actually
I want to make it Zone all put it in
A2 so for some Services you'll get the
choice
other services you won't other services
have no ability to span multiple
availability zones like a virtual
machine it understands availability
zones so I can say here use an A but
there's no option to be Zone redundant
all I can say is pick which a I actually
want to create it in because of the type
of
resource so it's really important to
understand kind of those Concepts and
the key Point here really is that um
I'll pick the
one that makes the sense for what I'm
trying to achieve so if I think about
how do I use these if you see a question
and it's hey I need to deploy a service
and I want to make sure my service can
survive the failure of a data center
ping availability own that that's the
answer if you don't have that option
remember I'd have the same
protection if I use multiple regions
because obviously they're different data
centers as well but that's typically a
very different architecture that would
tend to be more Dr purposes because of
how we can synchronize data so if it's
saying hey within a region I need
protection from a data center fing do I
use
a availability set availability zone or
Resource Group or any of those things
hey availability zone is a distinct
physical building we've isolated power
calling networking it helps me by
deploying my services over azs from any
particular failure so that's kind of a
key
point so the regions and the
availability zones they're physical
constructs then we get these logical
components of resources we want to
use so the first kind of building block
we're actually going to see is
identity so we'll often hear about Azure
ad so I'm going to draw Azure active
directory and you may just hear it
called aad so Azure ad is a
cloud I DP an identity provider it's
used by Azure and many many other types
of service within there I have things
like
users I have
groups I can have devic is I can have
applications defined I have all these
various things in my
azuread and it speaks Cloud what do I
mean by that there's different types of
protocols different types of
authentication authorization so it
speaks things like hey uh open ID
connect
saml WS
fed aw
2 there are all things we typically
think about for the cloud in how things
can work together now I talked about
authentication authorization so what
what am I really talking about so
authentication and I can really break
some of these down so we typically think
about these around
authentication
authentication is all about
proving who I am that's what
authentication is about you may it
written as or n so who am I I want to
prove I am who I say I am or an app or
service principle is typically we prove
that by a number of ways something I
know something I know is typically like
a password or a
pin it might be something I
have it could be a token some sort of
device that I can put in or maybe it's a
Time base that shows a code it could be
my PC it could be my phone well it's
something I
am I.E a
biometric fingerprint 3D face scan
smiling at the thing so I want to prove
Who I Am by one of those kind of
things and what we like in
authentication today is the idea of
MFA multiactor authentication I.E
two plus of these and I want just one of
them I want at least two of them hey
maybe it's something I have my PC and
then a pin for that PC that would be
multiactor authentication maybe it's
going to be a code from my phone well
the code for my phone I have the phone
and then it's maybe unlocked with my
biometric so I want multiactor
authentication to get that really strong
authentication give me more confidence I
really am who I say I am you'll hear
hear about things like hello for
business that uses your PC and a trusted
platform module chip inside the PC and
then you unlock it with maybe a
biometric or a pin and it's something I
have the PC so with that unlock it's
it's
MFA now MFA is available to all users of
azure ID if I turn on security defaults
I don't get to configure very granly how
that's going to work but I can get it
for everyone for certain
actions if I have Azure ID pre premium
then I can control the multiactor
authentication through things like
conditional access which we're going to
talk about global administrators always
get the full kind of MFA set of
capabilities an Office 365 users get a
subset of MFA for the Office 365 apps so
authentication is who I am then we talk
about
well
authorization so authorization is really
about what oh trying to write too
fast what I can
do so I've proved Who I Am with
authentication now once I'm
authenticated it knows who I am
authorization says what I can do and
often we'll hear about things like
role-based access control as a whole
part of controlling well what exactly
can I do now I told about if has your ad
we like this idea of conditional access
which can really feed in to wa do I
require MFA if I have that premium P1 or
premium P2 license and it's a big part
of hey driving some of that
authorization so I can think about
conditional
access kind of sitting as that
Gateway anytime I ask Azure ad for a
token which is how we actually go and
communicate to other things so what I
can do with conditional access is based
on certain um
conditions I can have requirements so I
specify conditions then I add
requirements for example hey you need to
MFA you have to be on a trusted device
you have to be hybrid Azure ad jointed
and if we super quickly just jump over
if we go and look at Azure active
directory and we look at security
and under security we look at
conditional access we can create
policies and we can see hey look we have
assignments we can assign it to certain
users and groups or certain roles I can
Target certain Cloud applications so any
application that trusts Azure ad could
be targeted with its own policy I can
add lots of different
conditions um the users's risk the
signin risk the platform they're using
what location they're coming from device
State and then I can have different
controls hey look I require multiactor
authentication or I require it to be
marked as compliant or it has to be
Azure hybrid joint um and I can pick
well do I require all of those things or
do I just require one of them to be true
so I have a lot of control around that
so conditional access is all about as
the name suggests giving me very
granular control about when a certain
application should be available and then
what needs to be met to make it
available and that's kind of a key point
we have this Azure ad this Cloud
identity provider and the whole point of
this is we have all these different
Cloud
applications that will trust Azure ad
for that authentication authorization
obviously Azure is an obvious one so
it's going to trust a particular azure
ad tenant I have an instance of azure ad
as a tenant for my company but also so
does things like Microsoft
365 so do thousands and thousands of
other thirdparty Cloud applications can
all use Azure ID and so what that's
going to give me is this ability to give
a great experience for the end users
because instead of having a different
identity at every single Cloud
application which could be hundreds
which will be a disaster I can have one
identity now most of the time what will
happen is a company already probably has
an active directory this is an on
premises directory system active
directory domain services and I already
have users in here and groups in here
and maybe other things so what will
happen for most companies is you're
actually going to
synchronize using something called
azuread
connect so this is going to take the
users in the groups and synchronize them
up into Azure ID so my user here or also
has an account up here and it does a
number of different things once I have
that
synchronization what I can then turn on
is
SSO seamless sign on what that means is
if I'm authenticated already if I go and
access one of these Cloud applications
I'm not going to get prompted to
authenticate again I already have the
quired authentication in place so we can
go and check hey conditional access for
the authorization there's certain
requirements I have to meet but I'm not
going to get prompted to reenter my
password or maybe MFA again if I've
already got a strong authentication I'll
just seamlessly be able to access those
so I'll Sate maybe once at the start of
the day and then I'm good it's not going
to keep prompting me over and over
again so this is all of the idea that
hey Azure ad becomes this Central
identity provider not just for aure but
there thousands and thousands of other
applications out
there
now this is great this idea of the
central Azure ad we have identity in
place but there might be other
requirements we have when we start
creating resources hey what regions
we're allowed to create in what types of
service we're allowed to create what
types of replication we
want and if I think about year old days
if I think about this the on premises
days if I was a
user and I wanted something what would
we do well there was probably kind of an
IT operations person it Ops and they had
access to the servers where you could
actually create stuff so what would
happen is I would put in a
request hey I want this thing please I
want a VM or 10 VMS or a database and
the IT operations
well what they would essentially be
doing would be the
checks okay you put in this request does
it meet our requirements in terms of
governance in terms of regulatory in
terms of all these other things and only
if this
passes would they then go and actually
create so that it operations person
wasn't just the person that created
things they were the ones making sure
our require requirements for compliance
and everything else were being met so
that was
great well that doesn't exist in a self-
service world if we take this same
scenario but now I think about the
cloud I think about Asia for
example
well it self
service there is no no it operations
person in the middle of that interaction
but I had the same requirements that it
operations person would check hey we're
creating right things it would then
maybe give me the right sets of
permissions it would maybe enforce
certain budgets hey you're spending too
much money I'm not going to let you
create these things so those controls
that used to be in place those checks I
need to do another way I still need
those checks but now I need Azure to do
them so let's think about well
exactly what those checks could be so we
talked about well maybe they gave
certain permissions so a big one here
would be role-based
access
control the idea remember so if I think
about all these things this is what I
can
do so role based Access Control in Azure
is all about the idea that we have
various roles
and a rooll is just a set of actions
there's all these different resources in
Azure that depending on the type of
resources different actions you can
perform so we have
roles so then a rle maybe it's easier to
just go and see one of these quick so if
we were to jump over and I just went and
looked at for example a virtual machine
I'll just pick one and we can look at
access
control and I can look at the roles that
exist notice I can there's all these
different different roles now key ones
are kind of owner that zoomed in the WR
way is owner contributor reader these
are generic and available for pretty
much everything as the name suggests
owner is the owner of the resource they
can do anything including change
permissions a reader can read anything
but can't change anything a contributor
can do pretty much any action except
change permissions so they're like the
owner but they can't change permission
but there's many other roles that are a
subset for example here I could have a
virtual machine contributor and I can go
and look at well here are all of the
actions they can
perform so we can see a list so all of
these different things based on the
different types of resource they can
perform all these different actions and
so Ro based access control is all about
the idea that I have a certain
role that I want to give to a certain
identity that could be a user it could
be a group it could be a service
principle which represents an
application at a certain
scope and I'm going to talk about what
those Scopes are but Management Group
subscription Resource Group resources
themselves and those things together are
a
role
assignment you can think about role
based access control is about giving a
certain entity a user a group a service
principle a certain set of
permissions at a certain scope so that's
hey this is what you can do so next
thing I I care about is
policy so if if our back is kind of
about okay what I can do and who can do
those things
policy is going to control maybe the the
where and the the how I can do these
things so this is all about guard
rails if you think about that it
operations person may be controlled you
could create things in these locations
of this type that's exactly what a
policy can
do so actually I might change this I
might to make this simpler for you to
think about maybe this is more about who
can perform the action and this is what
they can perform But realize the role
also controls kind of what you can do so
if we go and look at a policy for a
second if I look at
policy there's a whole bunch of
definitions and you'll see a huge number
of these so many on all different
categories of types of service but we
could unselect and only look for example
at storage
and you'll see there's all these
different
definitions and I could say hey storage
accounts should use private Link Storage
accounts should use customer manage Keys
storage accounts should be limited to
allowed SKS I control which types of
storage accounts I can create so I'm
basically putting in all of these
different controls and what this can do
is I can use these not only to stop or
allow someone doing this I might put it
in an audit mode so they can do it but
kind of tracks and I can use that for
compliance I might even use them to
correct something if it was deployed
incorrectly so different ways I can use
policies and rather than having to
deploy each of these one at a time I can
actually create initiatives so
initiatives are just groups of policies
and there are many built in there are
additional ones available for certain
compliance requirements like here you
can see hey look nist Spa 100 rev four
that's
989 separate
policies and so then I can just sign
this initiative at a certain scope so
that word scope again but what's really
nice is again I can use it to
control but I can also use it for
compliance I can quickly see for each
policy or initiative how am I actually
doing in terms of that assignment and
how am I meeting that in terms of my
compliance
so i' think about policy is about those
guard rails so yes it can
control I can stop you or I can correct
you but I can also use it for audit
purposes I can see well what is my
compliance so there's different ways I
can assign that but it's those guard
rails to help control and again I apply
this at a certain
scope and then I think about
budget and maybe that that's how
much I want to control how much of
something you can create again at a
certain scope and maybe that's hey I
want to control how much you're going to
spend based on what you've spent so far
or maybe I'm going to look at Trends and
say hey look if you carry on as you are
you're going to spend this amount so I
want to kind of stop you now or alert
you now so we can kind of change track
for all of these different things
they're actually going to get inherent
ited cuz we're going to be a to apply
them at this scope word so all of these
apply at a certain scope so what are
those
Scopes so we talked about we had aure
that's the cloud and we talked about
what actually happens is that Azure
Cloud we have trusts a particular Azure
ad
tenant so my Azure subscription is going
to trust a certain inst of azure
ad under my Azure ad we have something
called a Root Management
Group so what we're now talking about is
this idea of
management
groups and I can create a hierarchy of
these so I can create this whole
hierarchy of management
groups to fit my needs this could be
based on maybe Dev test in production
different countries different business
units they're there for my benefit
to apply these things to so management
groups arback policy and budget at any
of these levels can have these applied
and I could apply it to all of them we
tend to be more loose in general at the
top and get more specific as we get
closer and closer to actual resources
but I can have up to six levels of
management groups not including the root
but they're designed around hey I want
to
apply arbac policy and
budget and for everything we're going to
see here they are going to get
inherited all the way down to everything
we're going to do so if I assigned a
policy at this Management Group it will
get inherited by this Management Group
and this Management Group and then
everything under underneath as well
saying for arbac budgets would roll up
to wherever I said it so management
groups are there to help me assign
arback policy and budget and for loose
organizations so if the management group
is there to help me kind of structure
and control those governance type
features where do we actually create
stuff so the next construct we have is
the idea well under a certain Management
Group
I
create a
subscription and I can have lots of
subscriptions I might create different
subscriptions again for different accoun
teams different business units different
purposes subscriptions do have limits
now they're pretty big but we can go and
look and Azure subscriptions and service
limits page goes through all of the
different limits that
apply see some of these numbers are
pretty big so maybe I have to have
certain different subscriptions just
because I've maxed it out I have so many
things I need to have a different
subscription just because of that that's
not super common what's more likely is I
have different
subscriptions for some kind of
structural benefit for how I'm
organizing or I want certain isolation
because the subscription is a base unit
of azure interaction it's part of the
agreement between the customer and
Microsoft it uses a certain billing
model like pay as you go maybe it's part
of an Enterprise agreement it's kind of
a billing boundary is what it's really
useful
for well all of those things arbac
policy and budget I could apply them to
management
groups yep I can apply them here as well
so I can apply
arbac
policy and budget here as
well which will also get the ones that
will apply to management groups above it
so I have these different
subscriptions now once we have that and
I want to create something well when we
create
resources resources get created in a
resource
Group a resource Group exists in a
specific subscription I can have lots
and lots of resource groups in a single
subscription I cannot Nest
them and what can I do at Resource Group
hey I can apply role based Access
Control
policy and
budget you get the idea again these all
inherit down so the resource Group would
inherit the ones from the subscription
and the management groups all the way
down so it just gets more and more
granular so be hey this certain Resource
Group has a certain app that needs a
different policy something more specific
hey I can do that or a different set of
role based access control I can do that
there as
well resource groups are not a boundary
of use though what I mean by that is for
example I might have in this Resource
Group a virtual
machine that's connected to a network
interface card maybe this Resource Group
over here has a virtual
Network well I can still connect the
Nick to that virtual Network so resource
groups are not a boundary of any kind of
connectivity they're there partly for
this role-based Access Control policy
budget but I really think about resource
groups as things that have a
common life
cycle what I mean by that is the things
are going to get created together
they're going to run together ultimately
they're going to get deleted together so
I put them in a resource Group as that
boundary really that coupling together
so it makes it very easy for me to
understand because most likely all of
the components in the same service well
I want to have common role based Access
Control right maybe common budgets when
I deploy and provision things I'll push
it into a resource Group so having that
ability to have this common life cycle
that's really a key reason we would use
resource groups think about how I finish
of a certain project rather than trying
to scour around 50 different places oh
that project was in that Resource Group
I can just delete that Resource Group
that's really the key Point around
there now
okay so we have these key logical
constructs management groups
subscriptions resource groups I can
apply those key governance constructs
role based Access Control policy and
budget understand what those do role
based Access Control well who can do
certain actions policy what can I do I
can put guard rails and control that
stuff budget well how much of that can I
do and all of those things can be
applied at these Scopes to help hey I
don't want to have to deploy the same
policy in our back to a 100 different
subscriptions well they can all roll up
under certain hierarchy management
groups and apply it at the management
group so it makes my life
easier now when I think about this these
are all inherited down great but how do
I actually interact with this thing so
if I think about well there's
aure there's
actually thing called the aure
resource
manager
arm this is how I talk to Azure so no
matter what I'm doing I'm actually going
to talk to the Azure resource manager
now Azure itself is actually made up of
I talked about creating resources a VM a
network interface card all those things
so Azure is actually made up of
resources that are defined in resource
providers so it tells me all of the
different types of resource I can
actually create if we jump over and look
so if I clear this out for a
second if I do a get
ay resource
provider there's a lot of different
resource providers in the system
and what we can see for any of these
particular ones you can start to see hey
look there's resource types listed but
if we dived into one of
them we look at a particular provider
namespace microsoft
compute and didn't mean to capitalize
that and we can format it as a table and
just look at resource
types we'll see this just a whole list
of different resource types existing in
here this is just compute now you see
obvious things you'd expect virtual
machines that's a particular resource
virtual machine scale sets locations
remember are those different
regions um but then we'll see other
things we'll see things like
diss diss are part of compute so there
all these different types of resources
that actually exist Within Azure so the
Azure resource manager is really what
understands and facilitates
that and everything in Azure is a
resource even a VM so we talk about a VM
is that this really simple thing well
the reality is even a VM that simple
simple little virtual machine we might
have when I go and look at a virtual
machine what I can do is well hey here's
a VM and I deployed it to its own
Resource Group so it's in a certain
Resource Group if we look at this
Resource Group that contains one
VM it actually contains five different
resources so what does it have well it
has the VM itself but the VM connects to
a network
interface the VM connects to a disk for
its operating system the network
interface connects to a public IP
address and the Nick can use a network
security group to control the flow of
traffic and there could be other resour
ources as well so everything is a
distinct resource but that's
good because I didn't draw it on the
picture but I can also do our back at
the resource level I can go and see all
the policies that apply at the resource
level cuz they've all inherited down and
all of those things are available to me
here so the Azure resource manager
provides that management for Azure so
when you hear arm you can think that the
key point of all all of this is
management kind of
interactions and everything is going to
use that so if I think about me as a
user and I'm sitting at my
machine I have different ways of talking
to Azure the most common one we're
typically going to start with is the
portal well the
portal is talking to AIA and kind of
shown the portal already now the portal
is very pleasant it's very intuitive the
portal is great to quickly look around I
can say oh okay let's look at my
resources I can see my virtual machines
I could go and investigate this virtual
machine oh maybe I want to see some
basic monitoring information about
what's
happening it's great to quickly go and
look
around it's good to do little
investigations it is not good to create
things to provision think about just
creating a virtual
machine I have pages and pages of things
that I would have to
configure so understand the pain point
of that think about that for a
second if I was going to use the portal
to provision resources I'd have to make
sure I did it in a consistent manner so
I have this super detailed document and
humans do kind of click the wrong things
and the portal might change so as some
screenshot or the button slightly
different
try and create a hundred of them I'd be
crying so it doesn't scale it's hard to
document it's hard to compare to a
desired end State there's just so many
options so the portal is great to go and
look at things I would never ever want
to go and create things from the portal
but it's good to just kind of look
around now there's also something called
the cloud shell which lets me get to
things like Powershell and Bash if you
looked at the portal for a second up
here in the corner you'll see this
little
icon so that opens up the cloud shell so
the cloud shell lets me run so I'm about
to show you power shell and the Azure
CLI it lets me run both of those so I
can pick but it gives me access without
me having to install anything locally on
my machine A bash environment for the
Azure CLI and a poers shell to run the
power shell so that's just natively part
of the portal that can be super
convenient
there's
also the
mobile
app so this is available for kind of IOS
and Android sadly not Windows
phone once again this talks to the Azure
resource manager the mobile app is great
for hey I'm on the go I want to quickly
look at the state of my resources maybe
look if see there's certain alerts I
could start and stop things I can access
the cloud shell from there as well so
another useful thing thing but once
again I'm not going to try and really do
any big management from my mobile device
I'm not going to try and provision
resources from
that so then we get to
things Powershell AZ module now
Powershell is open source Powershell is
multiplatform Windows Linux Mac OS which
means the AZ module is Windows Linux Mac
OS and this is phenomenal for automation
or I just want to interact from a
command line so over here for example
I've been using this already you've seen
me run certain commands hey I want to go
and see what VMS I have super
quickly oh get a VM you can see I've got
those commands and obviously I can use
that
interactively but that's also really
powerful for automation scripts I want
to automate a set of management actions
these are phenomenal for automation
and likewise if that's sort Powershell
based then there's the AZ CLI that's
more kind of from a A bash kind of
History I can run it on Windows as well
CMD and that has exactly the same
capabilities so I'm going to jump over
to just a regular command prompt now
instead and what we can see here is if I
clear this quickly make this a bit
bigger for you I could do an a VM list
output t t i see the same information
it's a different syntax because I'm now
it's more in the bash world but I can do
the same exact type of things it's just
the syntax is
different so these are super super
powerful for a command line interface
scripting I still don't want to create
things with these although it's easier
to create things with this it's still
not the right solution but again they go
through the Azure resource manager so so
far I've shown you the portal there's a
mobile app there's Powershell there's
the acli we're not Crea anything so I
keep saying don't create things with
this how we want to create
things there's arm
Json
templates everything in Azure the
metadata that describes it is stored as
Json JavaScript object
notation so what I can now do is I can
apply a
template to that Azure resource manager
and this this is the way we want to do
provisioning and and there's a reason
for this this is
declarative what that means is if I was
to create something through pow shell or
AC CLI I have to tell you how to do
something new VM add disc
well if the script failed halfway
through I wanted to change config I
can't just run the script again and
change a value I have to use completely
different commands CU I'm telling it how
to do it it's imperative this is what I
want you to do with declarative I simply
say what is my desired end State I could
say hey I want a storage
account called essay 1 and I want it to
be a locally redundant storage account
go and make it so and it will go and
look will does this exist already um is
it lrs if not I'll create it but it's
idem potent I can run this as many times
as I want it's already created it and it
matches it just won't do anything
whereas if I run a script to create a
storage account and existed it would
error but I could also change my mind I
say actually I now want this to be
GRS make it so and it would see the
storage account is there but it's lrs
I'll change to GRS to match that desired
state so this is kind of where this is
so powerful this is why we want to
provision things with Json templates
it's declarative I say what I want I
don't say how to do it so I can easily
go and modify those things and we can
actually see so behind the
scenes if we were to just go and look at
really any type of resource we look at
my uh VM
again and it's going to look honestly
kind of there's a lot to it it's not
super friendly to
actually understand but you can do an
export
template and it's actually going to show
me the Json so here I can see okay yeah
it's a type microsoft compute resource
provider of type virtual
machine okay then there's a name which
is a parameter it's in a certain
location and there's a whole bunch of
other configurations and properties for
that I can see the VM type there's a
whole bunch of stuff
here but it's
declarative I could run this as many
times as I want and it would just make
it so so this is the preferred way to
provision things an arm Json template it
has massive parallelism it could create
a 100 resources and it would create them
all in parallel it wouldn't wait for
resource one then resource two then
resource three so it's super powerful
from that perspective and what's really
useful is it's a file so can compare it
to what's actually there but if we think
about things like devops I could
absolutely have some kind of um GitHub
repo or Azure devops repos or whatever
it is something probably git based I can
store that in there well then I get
things like Version
Control I get great collaboration
features so the fact that this is
declarative file makes it really good to
actually then work with other things I
can have parameter files so I can have
different values for different
environments but I can now use this file
across many many different types of
things and I can Define anything in
there role based Access Control policy
all those can be defined as that Azure
Json
template now what you may also hear
about is a technology called
bicep so
bicep is something new and it actually
transpiles which means it converts into
an arm Json template but this is just
more human friendly so I think in the
future you're going to see more and more
bicep as a friendlier way for us as a
human I want to create this declarative
template instead of having to try and
write Json which is really kind of ugly
I could write this really nice bicep
file I've got an example here of a bicep
file so this is creating a storage
account and what you can basically just
see is I've got a few parameters
I'm saying I want to create a resource
of type storage account and has a name
location kind and skew and that's it so
that's me as a human typing that out
which is actually really really nice
compared to the pretty hideous world of
trying to actually create an arm
template so you may hear the term bicep
but it's just going to go and create an
arm Json template behind the scenes
there were third party Solutions like
terraform terraform is great maybe I'm
using more than just azure I've got AWS
and Google Cloud I've got maybe VMware
and kubernetes I want one declarative
technology for all of those well
terraform will let me do
that so we talked a lot about governance
things there are some other types of
governance
constructs see if I think about this for
a second albac is great alback controls
what I can do but maybe sometimes I want
an extra check I want to say look you
you can't change this or you can't
delete it or at least you have to go and
perform an extra step so you don't
accidentally do something so what we can
actually do is we can create these
things called
resource
locks and I can then apply that at
different levels so again I could think
about hey look I could apply at the
subscription it will get inherited down
I might apply at a certain Resource
Group I might apply at a certain
resource and what I can do with the
resource lock is I can do one of two
things can not delete so I can change
it but I can't delete it or I can say I
don't even want you to change it I can
say read only so you cannot change or
delete it so I can go and create the
resource lock and then what it would do
is if I accidentally went and tried to
change or delete it depending on which
lock I set it wouldn't let me it would
say hey you can't do this I would have
to then go and remove the lock so it
have to be the owner basically to be
able to do
that and then once I've removed the lock
then I could go and modify delete or
just delete depending on which one I set
and it does get inherited so if I set a
resource lock at the subscription
level whatever that effect was would
apply to everything within there as well
so that's something I I can go and do
another really useful thing is we talked
about Json was kind of the metadata so
have these arm Json templates that are
fundamentally talking
Json well there's optional metadata we
can set because I might want to be able
to identify who's the owner what's the
business unit what's the purpose what's
the criticality so if I want metadata
one of the things we can add is
something called
Tags and again this is basically
metadata it is a key
and a
value and just like pretty much
everything else I can set this kind of a
set it subcription I could set it at the
resource Group I could set it at the
individual resource now important thing
most things we've talked about get
inherited ARB back policy budget rolls
up resource locks get inherited
tags
do not inherit
if I create a tag at the resource Group
the resources within it will not have
that tag so just keep that in mind if I
wanted the resources to copy the tag
from the resource Group I could do that
with policy I could create a policy that
says hey look if you're missing this tag
go and copy the value from the resource
lock but by
default you do not inherit tax and again
they they're just metadata I'll use them
for different things
if I go and look at for example my
virtual machine here I configured a
couple of
tags and I had for example over here
well I did one for the cost center I did
one for environment I did one for the
operating system one for the owner you
might see other ones for the type of
resource you might see an exact billing
ID it could be security like public or
confidential it could have different
regulatory tags it's whatever you want
this is not a fixed schema I can go
ahead and add any value I want and it's
showing me ones that I've done already I
can go and create a completely new one I
could go and create any value I wanted
if I wanted to control what do you think
I would do I could use policy so I could
use policy to restrict what I could
actually do here and these tags are
really useful I can search and find
things with a certain uh tag value when
I do billing billing I could actually
say hey show me the bill and I want to
filter it by tags that have this certain
value so tagging that metadata is super
super useful for
that another key construct we have is
well I've talked about a bunch of
different things so far I talked about
arback and Resource Group and policy and
templates what about if I've got kind of
a new subscription and I want to be able
to apply maybe a base configuration I
want to be able to stamp down a certain
configuration well we can do that we
have a constract called a
blueprint and a blueprint basically
enables me to contain a number of
different types of artifacts so I can
Define resource
groups then within that Resource Group I
can apply an arm template which again
remember creates resources I can apply
role based access control I can apply
policy and I could create a resource
Group too Etc so these four types of
resources I can Define in my blueprint
and then I basically assign
it to a
subscription where it will then go and
create all those things now when I do
that assignment I actually have
different options for how it's going to
actually
assign if if we go and look let's jump
over to my
subscription I have a
blueprint and it's super simple one all
I basically do in this
blueprint is you can see here at the
subscription level I apply a policy that
sets a tag then I create a resource
group called RG
networking I set Ro based Access Control
to give the network admins group The
contributor right then I deploy an arm
template that creates a core virtual
network but again I could do lots of
other things so I Define the list of
artifacts I want and then I assign it
and when I do the assignment I get to
pick a lock assignment so do not lock I
don't lock says well put this there but
then they can change delete whatever
they want to do do not delete says they
can change it but they can't delete the
things I create read only as you would
guess you can't change or delete them
and it does maintain the connection
between the blueprint and where I've
assigned it so if I went and created a
new version of the blueprint with
changes I can then update that
assignment a really important thing is
with these assignments both Blueprints
and resource locks they're applying at
the Azure resource manager level which
is kind of the control plane there's two
planes in Azure there's the control
plane what Azure resource manage does
create resources delete resources modify
resources then there's the resource
itself has a data plane um create a row
in a table create a file in a storage
account all of these things apply at the
Azure resource manager control plane
they do not apply to things at the data
plane so even if a storage account for
example was locked or had this
do not read only I can still create
blobs and delete blobs it's not
impacting the data plane it only impacts
the control plane are the resources that
the Azure resource manager controls
because when I do data plane actions
they're not going through the Azure
resource manager so all of these things
apply only to that control
plane one other thing when I think about
creating
this can seem intimidating
there's a lot of different things
happening here so when I'm trying to
think okay well how do I how do I get
started what is the right thing to do
there's something called the cloud
adoption framework so Cloud adoption
framework is really this set of guidance
and it's all structured around the idea
well I want to lay out a
strategy I need to make a plan about
what I'm going to do I'm going to get my
organization ready
then I'm going to adopt the cloud my
great
resources and then kind of govern manage
the environments there's all these
detailed steps for every single part of
this so really my recommendation here
would be to walk through this again the
handout for this course has all of these
links in it I'm not putting it in this
video go and get the handout for the
course but that it's good to have a
basic understanding of exactly what this
is and what it's doing um as part of
your preparation so understand hey Cloud
adoption framework it's all about things
to help me get started and really just
get the right um ideas so I start off as
best practice as
possible okay so talked about a lot
we've not really talked about types of
resource yet and there's a lot of
different types of resource so what I
want to do now is just give us some base
understanding of the types of resource
and when we would really kind of use
them so maybe jump over here we'll go
above this so the first type of resource
we're typically going to use is going to
be a virtual machine a VM now if you
think about a virtual machine think
about a regular machine I have maybe a
certain number of cores or virtual
CPUs I have a certain amount of memory
maybe I have certain amounts of storage
iops and throughput I have certain
Network connect activity but I have
certain
characteristics and that's exactly what
a virtual machine is a VM is just a
collection of resources that we're
making available to this certain unit of
work now a key point is when I create a
VM on
premises sometimes I want that VM to
have lots of memory maybe it's a
database sometimes I want it to have
lots of CPU it's just doing some
processing maybe I want a balanced mix
so it's exactly the same thing in the
cloud in the cloud we have different
skews and a big focus of these SKS is
about things like well virtual
CPU to memory
ratios but also there might be special
characteristics so if we go and look at
all of the different SKS that are
available if we go and look at the
virtual machine sizes what we will see
is we could start with the idea of we
have these compute
optimized and if I was to look at
compute optimized what we'll see is well
there's a whole number of different
sizes but you'll see all of the
different properties scale the same way
so CPUs memory Temp Storage Max data
cached all of these values increase
proportionally and what we're focusing
on here is this ratio so for every two
CPUs we get four gibes of memory so it's
a 1:2
ratio if I was to look at general
purpose there's a whole bunch of these
again different generations of processor
different temporary storage different
abilities to do other types of things
well now my ratio is 2 to8 so it's 1 to
four so there's a bit more memory for
each virtual CPU this is general purpose
then there's memory
optimized and exactly as you'd
guess this
time it's 2 to6 or 1
to8 but also there's going to be
differences in the amount of iops I get
I have ones with
gpus I have ones that have fpgas I have
ones that have RDMA network adapters and
then within those they have those
different sizes there's whole sets of
different types of virtual
machines based on exactly what I need it
to do so I pick the right skew and then
once I pick the skew where is I pick a
certain
size based on the amount of work it
actually needs to do now I have full
flexibility within that remember
responsibility I'm responsible for
everything inside there I can pick the
OS windows or Linux I can pick the
antivirus and the
firewall you're not on your own there
are whole bunch of extensions in Asia to
help you with these things but
fundamentally you get to pick what you
want to do so it's like the most basic
building block virtual
machine but often we're going to have
multiple virtual machines I have many of
them for scale purposes for resiliency
purposes then the next type of thing we
might build on top of that is something
called a virtual machine scale
set now what this enables me to do is
pick kind of a certain template for the
disk pick a certain configuration
but also pick certain scale so I can
have a minimum number a maximum number
and even Auto scale if you think
consumption basis I want to change the
number of s I have based on the workload
this lets me do that with this autoscale
capability and this is going to go and
create
VMS so I create this virtual machine
scale set that then behind the scenes
will create the virtual machines but it
will create them delete them based on
maybe a schedule maybe on some trigger
the average CPU is above 70% go and add
some more average CPU is below 30% well
let's delete a couple so it's going to
go and create those virtual machines for
me now many other things are going to
build on top of like virtual machines
and virtual machine scale sets But
realize again there's the cloud is
someone else's PC so there are servers
so most of the time
there's going to be these big racks of
servers and essentially there's there's
a host and when I create this thing hey
look my VM gets created on a certain
host but someone else's VM from another
tenant will get created on that host as
well and someone from another tenant
gets created on that host as
well there's full isolation by the
hypervisor by the software Define
networking through the encryption that's
not a concern for most people however
there may be scenarios where do not want
to be on a host with another customer
now by definition the public cloud is
multitenant but I want to just have my
stuff on a certain box so what I can do
is there's something called
Azure
dedicated
host and what that lets me do is I can
buy out the entire box so I'm basically
paying for the entire
capacity and then I can fill it
up with
VMS now as a dedicated host just like
there's different skews of virtual
machines that have different ratios the
hosts are the same so I buy a host of a
particular
skew and then I can fill it with VMS of
that skew type now I can have different
sizes so I could have maybe some little
ones or some really big ones but they're
all going to be at the same skew of the
host if we go and look for a
second if we look at Azure dedicated
host pricing what we see is we buy the
host of a certain
type and then that's showing us the type
of VM that I can actually
run on that host so I'm basically buying
out I pay for the host and I can run as
many VMS as I can cram in of the same
time of the host now there is another
option now obviously I can create lots
of those so I could create multiple
Azure dedicated hosts I could put them
maybe in um different fault domains so
different racks so I can get resiliency
from that type of thing but
also some VMS are just really
big so sometimes you'll create a
VM that actually just takes up the
entire box so are these
isolated VMS so I'm not creating an
Azure dedicated host I'm not creating a
box just for me but just by virtue of
the VM is so big there are these
isolated VMS and so if I create one of
those and these are listed as well then
I'm going to be on my own box because
well no one else can fit on the box I'm
taking up the whole box so realize
that's another way I can kind of get
that isolation as well so either I'm
buying out the whole box or I'm just
creating a VM that's so big um no one
else can fit on
it so I have VM so I have virtual
machine scale sets typically we deploy
to a multi-tenant set of hosts but I can
do dedicated or I just create really big
there's also Azure batch so Azure batch
is all about the idea of these really
large scale
workloads I have this job that I want to
run one it's a large scale parallel
workload it's the high performance
Computing and Azure batch will go and
spin up the resources I need the VMS to
execute that job it will queue it up and
run it as required so if I have that
large scale execution um Azure batch is
great for
that now all of these are based around
virtual machines and virtual machines
are based around the idea that we're
virtualizing the hardware we create a
virtual machine that's a p
carved out of CPU and memory and storage
and
networking where a lot of things are
moving to is the idea of
containers and if a virtual machine
virtualizes the hardware a container is
more about virtualizing the software so
I could think about well there's a
container
host which could be a
VM that container host is running a
certain operating system so that's kind
of at the kernel then there's a
container
runtime and that basically creates these
little
sandboxes so these isolated
environments in the user mode
space so it's the same operating system
but it's creating these isolated
sandboxes and then what we have with
containers is the idea that we have a
registry
where we have images so we have a whole
bunch of different images and we
essentially take the image and we run it
in a container instance and that image
itself is probably multiple layers
there's like a base OS layer then a
runtime layer then an app layer maybe
some customization and that then runs
but the benefit of containers if I think
about a VM a VM takes time to start I
have to create the VM stand up the
operating system and it's fairly heavy
the operating system has memory
requirements and storage requirements
well if containers are sharing a
container host container host is there
already so when I create a new container
it spins up near instantly and it's very
very low overhead because it's sharing
that container
runtime now it is sharing a container
runtime it's sharing a host which means
typically I want to trust my neighbor
and so that's great if me as a customer
I have multiple containers I can run on
the same host but if I'm multi-tenant I
don't trust the person over there and so
there are sometimes different services
that will essentially create a managed
VM
automatically and just run your
container image with you on your own
there's a whole bunch standby so we can
spin up really really quickly but
containers hey these nice isolated they
have controlled amount of resource they
can use I have isolated name spaces so
they can't see each other's processes
isolated networking they can't see each
other's networking it's got that great
isolation Okay so I want to use
containers I'm in Azure what can I do
well if I just want to run a couple of
containers there are Azure container
instances and this really is this idea
hey I I have an image I want to be a to
just run it I can create a container
instance to just run that if I have
multiple ones that want to be a to work
together I can actually create a
container
group and with a container
group they will essentially in inhabit
that same um container host but
otherwise if I create an a container
instance it runs on its own host I'm not
going to run it with some other customer
because I don't want to share a kernel
with some other customer there's things
they maybe can do so a container
instances will isolate automatically to
give me that protection so as container
instance I can have a public facing
endpoint or I can integrate with a
virtual Network as well so I I have that
choice so virtual network is a private
Network for my
resources I have different sizes that I
can create but it's a fairly basic
thing what about if I want a richer set
of capabilities I want to be a to Auto
scale these out I want Rich networking
integration I want full Orchestra I want
balancing I want
policy well the standard in kind of that
richer container environment is
something called kubernetes and I could
stand up kubernetes myself I could
absolutely create a bunch of VMS and
stand up
kubernetes but why do that so what we
have in Azure is we have the Azure
kubernetes service now I'm going to draw
it as a cloud because there's two parts
to kubes
the first thing is there's basically a
management plane so there's this
management
plane the control plane for
kubernetes with AKs this is fully
managed for me behind the scenes there's
a whole kind of set there's a scheduler
there's an API server there's an ETD
database kind of hidden in here there's
a bunch of other things they're all
managed for me I do not see those things
that's provided as a service what I see
in my
environment are the
nodes so I create node pools which are
of a certain type behind the scenes what
do you think this is using
yep it's using virtual machine scale
sets I told you these things will kind
of build on each other and this is where
my containers run so if AKs the
management plane is just there for me
it's maintained for me I then
push deployment yaml files it's
declarative or there's gitops where it
can pull it from a repo and then it will
go and schedule my containers now my
containers run in things called pods in
the kubats world but I have great
networking capabilities I can integrate
with virtual networks I can have
persistent storage through Azure files
or Diss or many many other types of
things I can have um different node
pools of different types maybe some of
the gpus some of them are just regular
VMS some of them maybe memory Centric
but I have all of these flexibility in
choice in how I'm going to create these
various node pools for the types of
resources I actually want so if you hear
Hey I want to use containers in Asia I
want to run kubernetes or I want some
rich orchestration what service should I
use H it's probably going to be
AKs now as we carry on thinking about P
then there's azure app service now app
Services actually can run containers as
well but typically we think of app
Services when it's some kind of web
focused workload now in terms of web
focused workload that could be a web
app that could be an API service maybe
it's going to integrate things like
Swagger it's going to host that for me
maybe it's a mobile kind of application
I'm trying to write in which case it
gives me these nice kind of push
notification
capabilities but I have these different
types of service and again I just focus
on the code I create uh an instance of a
web app I tell it the runtime I can be
windows or Linux and here's my code I
don't worry about anything else
depending on the skew it might having
like Auto scale there for me as well I
just don't have to worry about that
stuff so we like these app
Services if I were
hey you want to create a new web
application I want to minimize any
maintenance overhead I'm using maybe
it's doet or it could be Java there's a
whole set of different things app
service is probably a great solution for
that now so far all of these although
these are
P
underneath there are VMS and what I pay
for is really a number of skew sizes of
VM I don't maybe I don't manage them but
they're there that's what I'm paying for
what we then move into are the
serverless
offerings and the whole point of server
list is I don't pay for some unit of
virtual machine I pay for the work it
actually does so that's kind of a real
key point of
this another key point of server is is
they are event
driven because they're not typically
just running all the time something has
to happen that could be a blob is
written to a storage account a message
is written to a queue someone calls a
restful API there's a schedule a timer
but something has to trigger this to
actually
happen and then there's different well
what am I doing there's different servus
offerings but the whole point is I pay
for work
done and there's two offerings
so the first is azure
functions Azure functions is really all
about running some code I've written
it's supp many different languages but
I'm writing the code and then it's going
to run it for me it's designed to be
shortlived it doesn't have kind of state
between executions there is a way to do
that with duable functions but typically
they're not they're there to do some
little piece of work and it goes away so
it's it spins up it comes alive to do
something then it disappears and I pay
for the work it does now I can actually
run as a functions as part of an app
service plan or I can run it in this
consumption only mode but Azure function
is I have some code I want to run it in
a seress way hey Azure function is great
for that the other one is
azure logic
apps and I can really think about this
as no or low
code this is all about this graphical
kind of canvas idea that I can drag
these connectors there's these pre-built
collection of
connectors that are wrappers to some API
out there there's at 200 of them and I
can just drag it onto this designer so
if we go and look really quickly if I
was to look at functions for a second if
I look at a function app I can create
function app but the key point of a
function app is
fundamentally it's
code now mine here I think is Powershell
based on this particular
one but it's just some code so I still
have to code I have to understand those
constructs to be able to use that but I
wrote the code to do this piece of work
but it's going to run it based on some
trigger where if I look at a logic app
with a logic app let's just look at this
one if I look at the
designer I'm not coding or maybe
occasionally I write a little single
line of something to do something pretty
easy but for the most part I am not
coding what I'm instead doing is I get
this great visual designer if it decides
to actually open up and I can just drag
and drop different components from these
connectors to perform certain actions
try ref this come on wake
up but you'll just see basically a bunch
of boxes I can drag and drop from
connectors so I'm not writing code and
there's a whole bunch of templates built
in that I can leverage um to actually do
this okay maybe we'll come back to this
later on it but the whole point is a
visual designer I'm not writing code
there's a whole bunch of connectors out
there and I'll just see boxes hey do
this thing maybe hey got a tweet is
received we'll go and call cognitive
services to go and get sentiment okay
now go and write something to a queue
it's just dragging these different
things from connectors that will hey
make all that work so I don't have to
understand coding is that idea of a
citizen developer anyone can really go
and do
this so that's kind of the seress
offerings now there's there's a huge
number of different types of service
available another really popular one
right now if we think about kind of
these vmss and all these other things is
actually
Azure
virtual
desktop and I can really think about
this as the idea of publishing a session
I I get a complete desktop environment
Andor an application I just want to see
the pixels from a particular window and
it's obviously very popular with all the
the pandemic people working from home
more what Azure virtual desktop does is
just like kind of AKs where that control
and data plane well there's a whole set
of components I need for a virtual
desktop solution I need a broker to say
where to go to I need to encapsulate RDP
and https there's feeds there's a whole
bunch of management so all of that
management side is just part of azure
virtual desktop what I then get is a
bunch of VMS that are actually my hosts
and they can run different images I can
run server I can run client I can run a
multisession client which is unique to a
virtual desktop but it's going to
provide me an environment where I can
host um that complete virtual desktop
solution so that's really kind of um a
key service so hey I want to be able to
stand up a virtual desktop environment
in AIA what should I
use it's probably going to be Azure
virtual
desktop one other key service I want to
talk about before we move on to a new
type of
service for really anything in AIA but
especially if I'm creating my own
Services often we have the idea that I
have some sensitive information now
maybe that sensitive information is a
secret maybe it's a password or a
signature I need to be able to write and
get back sometimes I have keys I want to
perform some cryptographic operation
against this thing sometimes I have
certificates
and I need to be able to manage the life
cycle of those I need to actually be
able to also distribute them how do I
store these in a secure Manner and then
how do I get access to them so in
AIA we have
Azure key
volt so a keyo enables me to host all of
these different types of entities
and there's full granularity so I can
either do this using access policies or
the new way which is better is role
based Access Control policies only let
me say at a vault level these people
could do this to type Secrets but I
couldn't do individual Secrets or keys
or certificates ourbag at an individual
secret level lets me control who can do
what and how it can use it but the whole
point is this provides if necessary a
Hardware security module backed service
for the storage and use of these so a
secret hey I can write it I can read it
back out a key I can generate it or
import it and then perform cryptographic
operations but I cannot export it
certificates it will help manage the
life cycle and distribute those to other
services but then I can set our back so
other services can leverage this and
what's super common is you can buy this
with something called managed identity
now that's outside the scope of this but
think about all of these different types
of resources especially VMS or app
services or AKs they can have an
identity that's that resource nothing
else can use it I could give that
identity permissions to certain secrets
and keys so I never have to store
something in my
code because I'm running as that app
service I'm allowed to read that secret
which then gives me access maybe to
something else so key Vol is really that
key service when I have any kind of
consideration for hey need to store a
secret or a key or certificate hey that
can then integrate with everything else
so that that's really an important one
to
understand I've talked about networking
a couple of
times so all these different
Services maybe they're just public
facing but often they need to integrate
and work with other
things so we have this idea of a virtual
Network now we talked about regions we
talked about some
subscriptions the virtual network if I
think about a certain
subscription within a subscription I can
use lots of different
regions well a virtual Network exists
within a certain
subscription and a certain region I it
cannot span regions it cannot span
subscriptions so I can go ahead and
create a virtual
Network now a virtual network is defined
by a group of minimum ipv4 address
ranges so I'm going to have at least one
or I can have multiple
ipv4 addressed ranges it's very common
that you use RFC 19 18 so that's just a
set of IP addresses that will never
route over the internet you might see
kind of
10/8 you might see
sl12 and 1
192.168
sl16 so those are reserved so I can use
everyone could use that internally
because they can't R over the
Internet they they can't mess with other
companies now when I pick the IP range
for my virtual Network though I need to
make sure I pick an IP range that
doesn't conflict with another virtual
Network I have or another Network I have
for example if I have on
premises why may want to connect these
so I need to make sure I pick an IP
range that does not conflict with any
other v-net or any other network be in
another cloud or on premises I may want
to ever connect them so I want to make
sure I have this unique IP
range I can optionally add
IPv6 ranges as
well that's completely optional it's
always dual stack if I have IPv6 it's
never just IPv6 it would be ipv4 and
IPv6 now within the virtual
Network I create virtual
subnets Rec that
one two 3 Etc and they will have have an
IP range assigned to
them an optionally
IPv6 it's going to be a subset of this
range so maybe this is 10.0.0 do10
10.0.2 do 10.0.3 dot whatever so it's a
subset of the IP range of the virtual
Network so I divide it up remember that
regions could consist of multiple
availability zones these span
availability zones so if there was I
think about az1 az2 and
az3 they all span so a subnet is not
bound to a particular AZ it spans all
the azs in the region so there's no
worry about
that for any subnet I create I always
lose five IP addresses because generally
just a protocol I always lose kind of
the first and the last address all zeros
all ones of The Host range but then we
lose one for the Gateway and then we
lose two for DNS so whatever address
space size I create remember we always
lose five and then I create resources
inside here and they will get an IP
address allocated from the IP range of
the
subnet if I have multiple virtual
networks so I have another vnet over
here could be the same region or a
different
region I can peer them so peering will
route them over the Azure backbone but
now if can just talk to each other they
cannot overlap so again make sure the IP
ranges are always
unique I can also connect I drew the
idea of an on premises Network so I
could connect to my on premises Network
what we would do is we would actually
create a Gateway device so I could
create a VPN Gateway
device that would let me then over the
internet create a tunnel so obviously I
would have Gateway devices here as well
and then I establish that
tunnel so this would be a sight to site
VPN it's encrypted there are two types
there's
policy policy enables me to have
basically
one connection and we typically don't
like it it's a a static route it's
really only I had a legacy VPN Gateway
what we like is route based so route
based is I can have n number of
connections and it supports pointer
sight VPN so I can have a particular
machine hanging off to just connect a
machine to it and that is actually using
separate multiple tunnels and then has
different encryption based on the
particular tunnel I have but this
connection is going over the internet
but it is
encrypted the other option is you think
about Microsoft has this huge backbone
Network well I can actually have a
private connection so I could
essentially have a a connection we do in
go that
goes kind of like this it's a different
type of Gateway so it's an express route
Gateway and there's different sizes and
skews but this is now express
route it is not going over the Internet
the this is a
private connection now that private
connection could be because I'm hosted
at a Colo facility a collocation and
they have connectivity and I use theirs
it could be I have an MLS and any to any
ipn and now aure becomes a point off of
that so that would be a layer
three it could be I actually have a new
network cable dropped to a certain meet
me location appearing point so a layer
two connection so are different types
but express route basically gives me a
private connection so not over the
Internet between my on premises and that
virtual Network going through that
Gateway when I have express route there
actually different types of traffic what
I drew here when it was actually going
to a network is something called private
period
I'm connecting it to a virtual Network
there's also Microsoft peering where I
can offer services that don't live in a
virtual
Network so this is great we have this
virtual Network what about if I want to
control the flow of traffic so if I want
to restrict maybe between subnets maybe
between v-ets maybe between on premises
to control the flow of traffic I can
create something called a network
security group an NSG
so an
NSG is built around a series of
properties so I can think about the
source and the
destination IP or side
range I can think about the source and
the destination
Port I can think about the
protocol IE TCP
UDP and then we have things like hey the
name
description a priority because I have
multiple rules because this is all
basically made up of
rules and then well do I
allow or do I
deny so I create a series of rules based
on basically the IP
addresses and then I link
them to subnets I can link it directly
to a VM it's very to manage that way so
typically we create these sets of rules
that control the flow of traffic and
then link it to a
subnet now I wrote IP address ranges
here sometimes when I'm talking about
Azure Services there's just a huge range
of different IP ranges they may use so
the other thing you can do here is
something called service tags so a
service tag represents a set of ips used
by a particular Azure service like Azure
storage in South Central Cal
us another thing I can do is something
called an ASG an application Security
Group this is really just a tag that I
can put on a network adapter so instead
of having to worry about what IP address
serving ke is I can say hey look if this
Nick is tagged with SQL then treat it as
the SQL rules and apply it but think
about nsgs are the way to control the
flow of
traffic now all of these things I talked
about out these are basically layer
four IE it understands TCP and
UDP what about if I want to be a to
control based on a fully qualified
domain name or a path the URL I want to
understand SSL I want to do um SSL
offloading
Affinity so then we get into other types
of service now one of these is something
called Azure firewall
so this is an Azure first party Network
virtual Appliance and the big deal about
this is it understands yes it has the
idea of that layer four I can do Network
rules but I can
also do application
rules which is kind of that layer seven
so that lets me do rules based on the
path based on the fully qualified domain
name I can have categories based on can
understand what it's talking to with the
premium offerings it can even do SSL um
understanding get in the middle of the
SSL conversation decrypt the traffic to
know what's happening over the SSL paths
as well it can do things like dnet so I
can have a single IP coming in and then
send it to particular VMS or services on
the other side so I can do dap as well
so as your firewall would be kind of the
answer hey uh I need to do controls
based around fully qualified domain
names or categories of web traffic I
want to be able to host an IP and send a
different VMS based on the pole hey
Azure firewall is going to be your
answer there now to use Azure firewall
we basically have to tell the traffic to
go to the Azure firewall um as part of
its Journey so what typically we would
do is hey if I want to use Azure
firewall we have something called
userdefined routes and user defined
route just lets me say a next hop so as
on your way to this
destination hey your next Hop Is For
example that virtual Appliance so it
lets me change how traffic gets routed
around now there are many types of
service that actually don't live inside
a virtual networks let's come over to
this virtual Network for a
second so this virtual Network well it
has just like the others a subnet
but imagine now I'm using a storage
account over here say storage account
one and I want to be able to say that
storage account actually has its own
kind of
firewall and I want to say only things
in this subnet subnet
one are allow to use that storage
account but I can't do that by default
it only understands public IP addresses
and this is a private IP range so what
we can do is we can enable
a
subnet we something called a service
endpoint and it's specific to a certain
service so I would add a service
endpoint let's say for
storage that does two things it now
gives me a better
route in terms of getting to the service
but it also now on the firewall of that
service I can now say hey let's say this
is v-net one as part of its rules I can
now say vet one subnet
one yeah you're allowed to come in so
the service endpoint now makes this
subnet known to that type of service so
I can enable it on its firewall so now
that route would
actually still going through
there and it has an optimal route but
it's going to get checked and will be
allowed through but it's only for things
in that subnet connected Network other
subnets it would not work service
endpoint is only for things that exist
in that subnet I VM or an AKs or
whatever that might
be what about though if well let's say I
have another storage
account I want to also be able to use it
from other networks so another thing we
can do is we can add something called a
private endpoint
and what that does is it's actually an
IP address in this
subnet that points to a specific version
of a
service and the benefit here is it's
just an IP address and there's some
Associated DNS as well but it's an IP
address and so now what's actually going
to happen is
anything hey I'm peered hey I'm on
premises and I'm using transit routing
whatever that might be it's just an IP
and now I could strict I could say hey
don't allow the public IP at all I'm
only going to allow connectivity coming
in through that private endpoint these
are really useful things to help control
the
traffic one final thing when I think
about networks so these are all private
IP addresses but we can add public IPS
maybe to a low balance or something else
as soon as we add any kind of
public weigh in
some public Endo to something they were
mean people there are mean people out
there who want to do things like a
distributed denial of service attack who
will kind try and Target that but
default for any public IP Azure has a
standard sorry a basic distributed
denial of service offering that a huge
scale it will redirect that traffic but
it's at a huge scale now maybe my
service I want to be more sensitive and
a much lower value I want to start
working so Azure has both that
basic but also a
standard offering of a Dos
Protection
Service and what I can get with standard
is I create a standard
plan and I can link that plan to
multiple virtual networks that will then
get that prote ction for any public IP
that's linked to something in that
virtual Network and the big differences
are if we go and look at the
site well here I can see okay so
protection standard overview I see what
I get with the free offering it's really
just the first two so yes it's active
traffic monitoring and always on
detection and automatic attack
mitigations but only like a massive
massive scale but then for the Dos
protection standard we I get this
availability guarant guantee cost
protection policies tuned to the
customer apps it we use machine learning
to actually understand normal patterns
which will let it respond even quicker
when there's something outside I can get
reporting of exactly what happened I can
see detailed metrics so when I think
really really large
scale then that detail standard is
probably something I would want to look
at so if I see a question hey I want um
dos protection that's tun to my
application hey dos standard is probably
going to be that right thing so that's
all of the different networking things
that we're going to focus on now let's
think about some of the data side of the
house because often we want some kind of
persistent storage so great we've got
these various Compu services that we're
going to build on top of we have those
networking Concepts but hey I need to
store stuff so how do we think about
that so let's come over here so the most
basic building block we have when we
think about storage is a
storage
account and nearly every other type of
storage we see in some way Builds on top
of that now a storage account has a
number of different attributes it has a
name it lives within a specific
region and one of the big configurations
we do is we have a certain redundancy
remember we talked about so it lives in
a certain region so if it lives in a
certain
region remember many regions expose the
idea of availability zones to us so we
have that idea within the region of kind
of that AZ 1 2 and three and then we
also talked about paired regions so
there's also the paired region hundreds
of miles away but in the same
geopolitical boundary
and it has data centers and we really
only care about one of them in this case
so when I create a storage account I
pick the type of resiliency I want so
the first option is we have lrs now
there's always three copies of the data
but those three copies are within the
same cluster so those three copies
basically live in the same data center
then we have Zone redundance that's
locally redundant so there's always
three then we have Zone redundant where
there's three again but now those three
are spread over the Three A's within the
region then we have the concept of GRS
so GRS there's
three and then we have another three in
the PIR region so I could have kind of
three in this
a and then three over here as well then
there's a combination G
zrs so that's three and then three but
this time with G zos is a combination of
Zs and GS so the three are distributed
over 3 a Zs in the primary but
then you have the three in the same data
center over there and whenever it
replicates over that is always
asynchronous so it's because of the
latency it would slow down performance
there always an asynchronous
replication you may also see for some of
them there is an r a kind of variant and
what the ra like GRS or ra gzrs does is
for certain Services you can read from
that pair not all services support that
but that is available for some of
them also the different resiliency
options vary depending on the type the
performance of my storage account
because we have standard performance so
with
standard all of these options are
available again zrs may not be available
if the region doesn't support
availability zones but if I do the
premium well the premium
options they never have the Geo
redundant and it may not even
have the Z RS option if very iies
depending on the type if we want to look
to the storage account really really
quickly over here we can actually see
that in
action so if I go home if I look at my
storage accounts and I go to create a
new storage
account you'll see we have the same
things about creating a we select a
resource Group we give it a name but
under performance hey it's currently
standard so with standard I have all of
the options lrs GRS Zs and gzrs and
notice you have that option to make read
access to data available so that's that
ra option but if I change this to
premium notice I only have lrs that's
for page blobs but block blobs I have
lrs and zrs and files I have lrs and Zs
as well but with premium performance I
never have a Geo replicated
option so if I'm talking about that
premium and standard so what is that all
about we notice with premium I had to
pick a certain type of service so in
addition to this idea of region and
redundancy we have different
services or types that are available so
we have
blob a binary large object and we have
block blob that is made up of block
we have page blob which is made up of
pages and it's very good for read write
over random areas I.E like an operating
system disk and then there is a pend
very good for like logging I just need
to add to the end of that so with a
block blob they kind of are stored in
containers that's the structure but it's
flat there's no true folders there's an
idea that you can have virtual
directories by putting a folder as part
of the name of the file but it's not a
true directory
structure there is actually on top of
block you can add Azure data Lake
storage Gen
2 that actually adds capabilities like
posix style akles and a hierarchical
file
system so actually gets true like
folders I actually get real
folders as part of that and there's
other features but that's like a true
data
lake when we think about page blobs well
remember in that compute when I list out
the compute
provider well we have diss so let's draw
a different color so
diss actually behind the scenes are
using a page blob sitting on a storage
account but it abstracts it away
completely and diss what we typically
use with virtual machines and virtual
machine scale sets and nodes and other
types of durable storage there are
different types you'll see things like
standard hard dis Drive which are the
cheapest and slowest performance highest
latencies you'll see standard
SSD you'll see premium SSD and then
you'll see
Ultra
disc Ultra disk is unique in that things
like the iops and the throughput
characteristics are independently
controllable and can be actually changed
while it's being used whereas with
premium and the standards the
performance scales linearly with the
amount of capacity you add so that's
kind of a big difference between those
to be able to use the premium and the
ultra it must be kind of the S variant
of the virtual machine you'll see often
there's something like a DS and e s and
Fs that s means I can use the premium SD
and the ultra disc so I have to have
that variant to actually be able to use
those the other benefit discs ad is I
have things like images I have snapshot
capabilities it makes it a true
resource of the Azure rather than just
being this page blob then there's things
like
files so
files gives me the option to actually
have SMB or NFS
shares so I BAS basically create a share
of one of those types within that share
I can then put in my various files using
SMB or NFS
protocols there is a solution that what
this is basically doing is in Azure I'm
creating that file share in my storage
account what you can actually have is if
I had file servers on premises running
Windows Server so I had traditional file
servers
there thing called Azure file
sync and what Azure file sync
does is it will actually as the name
suggests synchronize on premises file
servers to that cloud share the Azure
file share they all sync via the file
share never to each other directly it
can also tier data so if there's data
that um is not used very frequently it
will actually remove it from the local
copy in its own stored here but if
someone tried to access it it would pull
it down on demand so I have um files as
well capabilities there's also the
ability to have
cues so small messages in a first in
first out format um it's normally used
to drive maybe some kind of a vent
driven process and then there's also
tables so tables is really about kind of
key value scheme list storage
um and so all of those available as part
of a regular standard storage account
remember if I select premium well with
premium then I pick one of them remember
there was premium block blob premium
page blob or premium files that it's
only that type of services
supported another key point when I think
about block blob and actually files has
these capabilities as well is sometimes
your about access
tiers because we have different ways we
want to use a service we have data we're
constantly interacting with data we may
be interact with less commonly but we
need it available instantly data we need
to keep but we could wait for getting
access to it so we can always think
about well there's like kind of that
premium offering we'll do premium in our
super gold color so often maybe for like
blob block blob and FES I can create
premium so then outside of Premium if I
just go to kind of my standard type
account then we have the option of hot
tier a CO
tier and then we have I guess we do
archive
tier and the point is I pay more money
for the capacity the storage with the
hot tier but less for the transactions
and as we go down we pay less for the
storage but more for the transactions an
archive is is actually
offline I have to actually move it out
of archive into hot or cool to be able
to interact with the data uh I can
manually move these between them again
premium is a different type of storage
account I can't just move between
that'll be an entire copy operation but
one of the things we have is life cycle
management and what life cycle
management will do is based on rules I
set hey last it was accessed last time
it was modified hey move it from hot to
Coal it's not being used very much move
it to co hey it's not been used at all
move it to Archive hey it's been seven
years delete it so this can help kind of
automate those various things or even go
and put it in the trash can a dumpster
fire one of those things so these access
tiers available for that that's block
files does have a similar concept but it
doesn't have archive it has transaction
optimized hot and cool there there's no
offline archive option but it is a
similar kind of concept again I can pay
more for the storage CU I'm interacting
with it lot so I pay less for the
transactions or hey I need to keep it
online but I don't expect to interact
with it much so I'll pay more for the
transactions but less for the actual
storage so that's like really basic just
hey something to store stuff in but
option often we need kind of a richer
capability than that I don't just want
to store some blob or something else so
what we typically want are
databases and there are many different
database Technologies in
Asia often we talk about a relational
database and I want the idea that hey we
have data that is in some way structured
in schema way I have a defined set of
columns I can have with different types
of data values there were keys that
specify the uniqueness and how maybe
different tables relate to one another I
normalized the data so maybe I have
addresses in one table orders in another
table um customers in another table
inventory in another table it avoids
duplication and it's just focused on
certain types of data now when I think
about in Asia there are many types of
databased service yes I could run it in
a VM remember the responsibility I don't
want to be responsible for the OS maybe
I don't even be responsible for the
database so there are solutions that are
based on
SQL so SQL is Microsoft's um
solution so one of the things we have
here is we have
Azure SQL database so this is kind of
the most PA type solution now there
actually they're all P Solutions really
but this is fully managed offering there
are different skews available there's
things like hyperscale which is this
massive scale set of capabilities with
separated page servers that scale out
for the storage there's a serverless
offering there's regular SKS there's
standard there's business critical but
this is a true PA hey I'm deploying this
service in the cloud I want use asq
database but maybe I'm actually moving
an a SQL database from on Prem to the
cloud and I need some existing type
features that don't work with this as a
SQL database I'm using the maybe common
language runtime I have cross database
queries I need to use a SQL Server agent
so then what we have is
azure
SQL managed instance Mi so this is all
about
compatibility there's a whole bunch of
different features that we can quickly
kind of look
at and what we'll see is if we compare
this against aure SQL database on the
left and aure SQL managed instance
you'll see a whole lot more yeses on
this right hand column things like that
common language runtime yes I can do
that with a SQ managed instance cross
database queries cross database
transactions database mail yes different
types of statements yes distributed
partition views yes um you just it's got
a better
compatibility it actually deploys into
my virtual Network in Azure as well and
so if I'm looking for hey I'm moving a
database from on premises to Azure I'm
using certain features that hey I don't
think are going to be a fit Azure SQL
Mii deploys into my v-net and it has
great
compatibility and there's things like
the um migration data service
that will help me both ascertain how I'm
using things on Prem what features I'm
using to actually then get it into these
types of service now there's also ones
that are built on top of Open
Source
software so things like
postgress U
MySQL there is azure database for these
so it's completely managed offerings of
these but it's built on that open source
software so if I'm currently using these
Solutions on Prem here I can go to a
fully managed version actually running
in Azure he has native backup native
High
availability um different scalling
options full monitoring and hey I I can
just go and leverage these there's also
a postgress hyperscale offering so this
uses the citus
extension to give me that sh in of the
data over multiple servers and get that
huge scale huge
performance and then I can think about
well okay I just have this idea of kind
of born in the cloud which is Cosmos DB
so Cosmos
DB is all about multiple
models and when I talk about multiple
models I'm talking about things like hey
I can have documents so I could store
Json documents I'm using SQL or mongod
DBA apis I could have column based data
so Cassandra I have key value I have
graph I can use a gremlin API so there's
multiple models of data that we can have
with this and I can pick the
consistency often with databases there's
a single primary a read write and
anything in other region will be a read
replica with Cosmos DB I get to pick
that consistency and although you don't
need to really understand the full
detail about this if we just go and look
one of the nice things I can do here is
if I go and look at Cosmos
DB you get to pick the consistency so I
could have an instance of a database in
every single
region and I get to pick how is it going
to handle keeping those different copies
in sync I could have strong where they
would all have the same data
so that means hey I'd have to wait for
it to go everywhere before it's
acknowledged but there's hey I just need
to be consistent within a particular
session but I'm guaranteed ordering and
consistency between them eventual hey it
may get data out of order but that
doesn't matter it'll get it eventually
and there's kind of ones in between but
that's a very flexible solution
depending on what I actually want to
do now I talked about VMS while I'm in
the
screen there's something called the
Azure Marketplace and as the name
suggests it's a place where I can easily
see resources but not just those from
Microsoft third parties for example I
look at
networking there's a whole bunch of
networking Solutions I could go and see
more in the
marketplace and see all the different
types of solutions now these could be
VMS that have certain software
preconfigured on them and I can just use
it sometimes they include the licensing
as a pay as you go sometimes you bring
your own license with it so it totally
varies maybe it uses another type of
azure resource but there's all these
different types of things available so
if I want to stand something up in Asia
often we can just head over to that
Marketplace and there'll be something
there um that I can actually leverage so
that kind of sits and makes all these
different things available
okay so let's move on to other types of
service so we drew this idea of these
these like core compute things so this
is all about me writing my app and then
I can run my app on these things but
sometimes there's kind of higher um
Solutions than that there's services
that actually do something for
me Internet of Things is kind of this
huge popular thing right now the idea
that you have all these little devices
and all these little miniature devices
have these micro kind of controller
units in them and they connect to the
network now if you have things connected
into the network there's pros and cons
with that I can now send data I can send
metrics I can send events to something I
can also now receive updates a firmware
update a software update but also if I'm
connected bad people can try and do
things to it so this internet of things
and all these internet enabled devices
so this iot where everything can have a
sensor it thinks about hey it sends data
out but it also needs to maybe receive
instructions maybe updates actions it
needs to do and so if I think about just
that basic interaction with that device
well there's services to do that so the
first service we think about is
azure
iot
Hub so Azure iot Hub is all about that
ability to have devices basically
register and be known as devices to this
service it enables me via sdks that it
provides to then write my app to talk
and receive by those so it's doing the
work to understand the Direct
Communications it has like a a digital
version of all those devices so it has a
device twin that represents the device
that I can talk to to get information
from and send instructions to that will
then pass on the device when it's next
online so this is all about the
capability to manage all of those
devices and have them registered with
something but I'm going to write the app
to actually go and do the work so yes I
could push firmware updates I can get
Telemetry I can get sensor readings and
all of those things but I just need
something to provide the
connectivity I am going to write the
work that actually does the
solution maybe I want sank a bit more so
then the next option we actually have
over
here is
azure
iot
Central now this is essentially sitting
on top of azure iot Hub but this is
adding nice things like
dashboards it has a whole set of
industry based sets of solutions and
scenarios like retail and government and
energy and healthc
care that provides me that complete set
of information and simulated devices
so I can start getting up and running
super super quickly I can customize the
user interface uh I can have rules via a
nice graphical wizard based on some kind
of telemetry or information I get to do
something I can call a logic app that
serverless thing we talked about I could
send an
email for example maybe I'm talking to
devices if a temperature reading goes
above X I may it's going to start
thoring out
call this logic app or send an email to
someone and I can do it all through
these nice graphical
interfaces so iot Hub is about hey I
want to write something to do the logic
and the the work but I need something to
deal with the talking to the devices
Azure OT Central is about hey I want
something out of the box that I can then
just customize the dashboards and the
management the next solution is is azure
sphere and Azure
sphere is really focused around the idea
of securing the
devices there's three key components to
it this microcontroller unit well
there's really this Azure sphere license
set of
technology and that's going to run the
operating system it's going to run the
sensors there are various stter kits
available there are Azure spere
certified microcontroller units and then
this runs an operating system so Azure
spere then gives me the OS it's a
customized Linux kernel but once again
it Ain now that Microsoft is responsible
for maintaining and
updating and then on top of this Azure
sphere kind of has this A3 service so
this is the Azure sphere Security
Service as3 sorry as3 I should have said
as3 security service so that's making
sure it's not been compromised by some
malicious software it's using
certificate based
authentication to also authenticate to
Azure cuz really think about compromise
compromise could be someone sending bad
things to the device but it could also
be someone pretending they're the device
sending bad things into my data which
could make me do bad decisions so it
enables the
secure communication by proving I am who
I say I am to make sure there's not bad
things coming in the other way either so
this is all about kind of that
security moving on so I talked about
data and I had kind of
databases but when I think about data
services is actually a lot more than
just storing the data so if I think data
service think about the flow there's
some kind of source
these could be from the cloud they could
be on premises all these different types
of system it could be files it could be
data base rows it could be streams of
data and I want to basically get it to
some sync we talk about source to sync
maybe that's a data warehouse another
database other types of things so this
whole format we talk about where we have
to extract the
data we have to transform the
data and we have to load the
data so say has to be able to get the
data out of that Source
system now what we will sometimes see is
remember I talked about data
Lake data Lake are these huge huge
stores so this is the Azure data Lake
storage Gen 2 that sits on top of
blob sometimes we will actually
extract and actually do a
load and then kind of carry on the
reason for this is historical but it
used to be we would transform it quickly
because there wasn't much dispas we had
to only keep the data we needed to do
our job today there's lots of storage
maybe in the future I have different
requirements so by storing the data in
its raw
format well then later on I could come
back to that and transform it in
different ways to do the job I want now
when we think about all of these
different stages something has to
orchestrate that so all of that
orchestration enabling all these things
to talk calling the different connectors
that is azure
data
Factory so that is basically the
orchestration um
functionality for the transformation
there are many different Services now
the one you'll commonly hear about is HD
insight
which actually hooks into a whole bunch
of multiple open-source different
Services there's things like Hadoop for
dis based processing there's things like
storm for Real Time processing there's
spark so Spark's a big one mostly batch
jobs but it's kind of an inmemory set of
capabilities there's CFA for Big Data
streaming there's Hi l lap there's hbas
all these different options this is all
about this transforming getting the data
Maybe removing duplicates it's wrangling
the data it's getting it in some format
that I can now do something useful with
it there's also data
bricks so if HD Insight is all about
large numbers of different open source
types of framework this is all built on
so Azure data bricks is using data
bricks which is really built on Apache
spark so it's a fully managed offering
that I can use for the transformation of
my data so you may hear a date bricks
fantastic for that there's a whole
analytic service around it um it uses
VMS and blobs behind the
scenes
and it's actually used by other types of
service we have as well now you may also
hear so if that was Azure I'm just write
Azure there so if that was Azure data
Factory that for source to sync
orchestration
you may also hear about
azzure
Synapse kind of
analytics and that really comprises of
this and more so it has its
orchestration it has a whole synapse
workspace it used to be a SQL data
warehouse so it has a data warehousing
capability but it also has its own
Apache spark transformation service the
whole point of a synapse Analytics it
brings everything together into one
workspace I'm not worrying about
connectors between things I'm not
worrying about roles and permissions
between things it's really just doing
everything for me but it's using some of
these other components behind the
scenes um but it brings it into one
workspace so it really simplifies that
whole
thing so that was data
services then we get into things like AI
services so we talk about AI artificial
intelligence we talk about Ai and ml so
machine learning so artificial
intelligence is more about the Deep
learning based on the neural network of
the mind machine learning is about
training a model on some existing data
so we can then apply that model to new
data to maybe forecast future outcomes
or to understand something it's hearing
or seeing or many other types of things
and so there are various services built
around
AI so I can think
about
Azure
machine
learning this service is about me as a
company this is a platform a platform
for
predictions and what that means is I I'm
doing the work so I'm going to do the
definition
of how to kind of get the data I'm going
to kind of create the
models I'm going to do the testing of
the models and then I'm going to kind of
deploy the algorithm that I've created
via an
API and this enables me to do that so
Azure machine learning is where I want
to basically do the work I have data
scientists that want to work out where
the date is coming from create the
various models I want to train the model
evaluate the model create a pipeline for
the experiments and then make that final
model that algorithm usable via some API
endpoint so this is I'm creating
something what about if I don't want to
do that the next thing we have is
azure
cognitive
services so what we get now a
pre-built pre-built models based around
a wide range of different types there
are things around
language so it can do things like hey I
can have natural language coming in and
it can actually understand it it can
evaluate sentiment it is positive is it
negative it can understand what users
want I can understand things like speech
so I can convert Speech to Text uh I can
translate from one language to another
language I can do various types of
verification and validation there are
Vision Services there's many different
types of this but I can hey I I know
what you're showing me so that's a car
that's a bus that's a person oh that's
John savell that's someone else oh
there's five of those things in there so
I can analyze pictures analyze videos or
other types of visual content and then
things like decision
services so these are all pre-built so
the point of this is hey I don't want to
build and train models for the most part
I want to be able to just take some
pre-built model and use it so that's
Azure cognitive
Services then we have the
idea of azure bot
service and as a bot service I'm going
to try and draw a bot really quickly
terrible picture I know yeah that's a
robot the a bot service is really about
the idea of
interacting with people now this could
be a a kind of a chatbot it could be
voice because remember I can integrate
with other types of service so I could
understand natural language so the whole
point of the Azure bot service is I want
those kind of interactions
with an
actual human being I'm going to build an
entire knowledge base of things it knows
and then it can draw from how it can
respond and answer to that person I can
have these nice interactive cards for
nice visual interactions and this single
bot I create I could link into many
different types of channels to actually
use that so those are when we think
about kind of those AI Services now
let's come over here for a
the next basic thing you need to
understand is this idea of devops now
devops is not an Azure technology as
such but remember before we drew this
idea of hey we had this git repository
where I stored a Json file and we
provision things to this so devops is
all about a process it's the way people
work together it's the tooling process
they may Leverage
and there's different ways we enable
that you'll hear things like continuous
integration pipelines continuous
deployment continuous
delivery so we have this idea of
devops and there's this whole cycle you
kind of see in devops around hey we get
feedback and then we we constantly make
these small incremental units of
business value then we gather more
feedback and we then enhance it some
more it this is never- ending
Loop and there are different tooling
sets available to us so there's Azure
devops so Azure
devops has
Repose so as you would expect it has
repost so it can be git based or it has
its own um Team Foundation Version
Control which really no one is going to
use anymore git really has become the
standard in repost this is how we can do
that version control that's all what
repost around it has the idea of boards
so boards is about how we can organize
and track projects and a devop is very
very good at this if we jump over for a
second I've kind of got a board that I
use to track the videos I work on so I
can see hey this is my video planning
board and we have these can band boards
which is based on how we organize and
move things I can have these swim lanes
and working progress limits it's a
really great powerful solution so devops
is is great for that it also has
pipelines so pipelines are all about
that idea of well continuous integration
continuous delivery which is about
constantly building our software maybe
continuous deployment actually pushing
into production as
well and that that's been a very rich
solution for a devops it has the idea of
I can have Gates between different
stages which could be different
environments and that's some that was
really really strong it has artifacts
where I can store kind of these built
maybe at some Library something else it
has test plans and while this is a very
mature
solution it's really not getting a huge
amount of investment today because
Microsoft bought
GitHub and this is very much the future
and now where GitHub shines is repos it
obviously has repo functionality but it
has fantastic security it can detect how
there secrets in there it can convert
your code to data to run algorithms to
detect vulnerabilities in your code um
there there's a whole set of Rich
functionality it is the open source kind
of repo for the world it also has
actions now its actions are yes it does
CIS CD and else well maybe all cuz it's
not just restricted to cicd with get up
actions I can create an action off
really anything so if I was to go and
look at my um this is my GitHub I can
create
actions and there's I can trigger off
really anything I want so I've got
different workloads here so one of these
for
example is you have a kind of an on so
these
on I've got mine just set to nothing so
I will manually kind of run this but I
could trigger these on really anything
and what makes that so powerful is I
could trigger it hey someone submits a
poll request someone joins a community
someone posts a comment so these actions
are super powerful and it has
environments now and I can have kind of
gates on the environment so I can still
have those really nice controls now on
GitHub as well it does have the idea of
projects which would be like kind of the
boards it's not as Rich to day but I
expect it will catch up and again it has
the places I can have like artifacts and
all of those things as well this is the
future like this is where everything is
going to go it will the places where
it's weaker today like
projects uh it will catch up and pass
but if you had Azure devops today great
you can carry on using it if I was
starting
today I would probably be going GI Hub
and they can work together I could have
my repo my code and use Azure pipelines
or azure boards to actually manage
it then we have Dev
test
Labs Dev Dev test Labs is all about the
idea that hey I need to create a bunch
of VMS of different configurations so I
can test something and then tear them
all down well I say VMS the reality is
anything I can Define in an arm template
I can Define with this so it's about
creating environments for testing doing
the testing and then tearing it down
afterwards now tearing it down
afterwards is actually really
important because that's just
consumption based remember we pay for
what we use so let's dive into this a
little bit so let's dive into this idea
of okay these were all the governance
and we talked about budgets and stuff
like that let's go into what actually
costs us money and what can we do to
maybe optimize those costs so how do I
think about
costs in
Azure remember fundamentally we're often
creating a
resource so what's going to define the
cost well there's a type of
resource storage account virtual machine
media service machine learning that type
of resource will impact the cost then
the type will often have a
skew um is it a standard is it a pre
prium is it a basic maybe there's a tier
well the tier hot tier cold tier archive
that cost me money
location different things may cost
different amounts of money in different
places and then based on that there may
actually then be metering in place often
there is it's consumption based so I can
then think about okay if that's the
basic structure of the unit
well does it exist I is it
provisioned um is it
running like a virtual
machine if it's not provisioned on a
host but it exists I don't pay the
compute
charges how
many we think of Auto scale remember
virtual machine scale set can change the
number we
have how much work is it doing think
serverless I can think think about well
how much is it storing if it's a
database if it's a storage account
that's going to impact and that when I
think about the storing side well there
might be okay so there's
capacity but then I can think about
interactions
transactions and that might go into
what's the right tier that I should use
there might be
licensing so there's many many factors
that actually influences the cost of my
resources
so I can think about what are the things
I can do to help optimize that okay well
how many um Auto
scale make sure we're only running the
number we need for it to work make sure
we optimize the
skew remember those VMS there ones that
memory optimized compute
optimized um general purpose make sure
the ratio of resources is matching the
workload so I don't have a bunch of
wasted resource that I could do
something better make sure we
deallocate when it's not
required there are ways that you can
automatically shut down VMS at night so
if I have like a Dev test envirment well
shut it down at the weekend shut it down
when people aren't using it I that's
essentially what autoscale does but also
does it exist am I paying for something
that doesn't exist anymore so make sure
you use resource groups to organize and
then you can actually delete things more
easily once a certain project is no
longer
required if there are tiers
available can I use that kind of life
cycle
management to move things around so I'm
optimizing capacity costs against those
kind of transaction costs and the type
ideally I want to be moving from I as to
Pas that includ both compute and
database I don't want to run a database
in a VM if ideally I could probably run
it as a database P service asure manage
postgress asure manage my SQL um aure
SQL database Cosmos DB that's much
better than running those products in a
virtual machine there's probably going
to cost me
more but it's also far much more work
for me to actually be
managing make sure I can always identify
the owner
so if all of these remember like the
metadata we make sure on these things I
have tags cuz I want to know who the
owner is so I can always say well who is
this are you still using it or can I
delete this thing so we want to be able
to optimize those things and in general
there's something called Azure advisor
we're going to talk about this Azure
advisor gives me kind of guidance over a
wide range of are
but it gives me recommendations about
cost so I want to be looking at that
frequently maybe once a week to get
ideas if there's something I could be
doing now outside of these general cost
saving things there are other things
that I can do one of them is called
Azure
reservations if you imagine I pay a
certain amount of money based on the
skew and the number I have running
over a certain amount of time for a
certain type of
resource my usage May fluctuate a little
bit and I'm talking about maybe over
years there
seasonality but there's kind of this
base level but I'm always using that
amount aure reservations let me for kind
of one or threee terms say hey I'm going
to use this type of resource could be
storage or Cosmos or particular skewer
VM and if I commit to using it for let's
say three years and this amount you get
a massive discount so those can really
help me save a lot of money if I can
commit to using that for a certain
amount of time the other things I can do
is remember this
licensing so there something called
hybrid use
benefit and this is all about the idea
well I have some license seeing already
maybe it's the OS like Windows or even
some of the Linux or things like SQL
I've already got the licensing covered
by an Enterprise an EA agreement with
software Assurance hey I can bring that
and use it against resources in Azure
and stop
paying for the licensing part I'll use
my existing license basically bringing
my own license to
it I might have work CL mod where I need
to get work done but it's not time
critical and it can be resumed so it can
get stopped and it can start again kind
of this existing idea so one of the
features we have is
azure
spot
VMS and what this lets me do is remember
we talked about the cloud and it was
Limitless because there's this massive
amount of resource available well
obviously they have servers but they
have to have a huge amount spare for
when people suddenly create a th CS of
something Microsoft don't really want
empty servers if they can help it so
what spot VMS let me do is I can say hey
look I want to create some
VMS but you know what I'm really I'm
okay if you have to stop them because
someone who's willing to pay regular pay
as you go needs it more than me so when
I create certain types of
resource what we'll actually see is this
idea of let me change the
skew we'll see this idea of azure spot
instance and if I say yes I can actually
go and look and what it's going to do is
I can set a price I'm willing to pay up
to a certain amount of
money or I'm willing to pay up to its
regular
rate but I will still get taken off if
some regular on demand customer needs it
and what it's basically showing me here
is what what price I currently pay and
what is the chance of me being evicted
by regular pay as you go customers so
the rate is going to vary obviously
typically if they have so much spare
capacity they'll charge you less because
they just want to try and get it used
the less spare they have the spot price
may go up I can see over here for
example like Canada Central well it's
really cheap and eviction rate is 5 to
10% so I can see I can get much much
much cheaper
resource and this will be a great fit if
the particular resource I'm creating is
running some
workload
that it can be
stopped and then resumed again OB I
don't want to lose all my progress so
it's some job I'm running that you know
what it can be stopped because I can
just resume from where it got to some
maybe batch process or something else
so it's a way I can use all that huge
capacity and get it as cheap as
possible now when I think about all of
this when I think about costs how do I
know what my costs are so there is a
pricing
calculator and the pricing calculator
this is easy just to understand by
looking at it so if we go and look at
the pricing
calculator what this lets me do is I add
the type of service so I could add
virtual machines says added and then
what I'm telling it is well how many of
this resource do I want and how many
hours remember it may not be 24/7 or
month it may run 4 hours a day so I tell
it how much what type and then it will
show me the price now notice say
interesting about this so if I say here
let's change this to one for a
second notice the price over here
$152 now if I was apply remember that
reserved instances if I'm wanting to
commit to a three-year term look what
the price dropped to
$104 now this is a Windows VM what about
if I also have Azure hybrid benefit I am
bringing my own Windows Server license
now it's
$37 but I would B basally go through and
I can work out all my different costs
remember there's discs as well for VM
okay I'm going to add an OS disc of
different types doesn't show me premium
or Ultra because I selected the D series
not the DS so if I wanted to be able to
use the
premiums I need to use a something s
variant so now I've picked an S variant
now I get the premium option as well so
I could go through and I could add those
to my OS dis if I wanted to add a data
discs I would add storage account I
would say a manage dis and then pick the
type so this pricing calculator lets me
go through add all my different
resources and then actually understand
what my expected prices would be but it
helps me understand hey where reserved
instance may play uh hybrid benefit
helps me Etc but it's more than just the
Azure cost we often think about a total
cost of ownership there's also a total
cost of ownership
calculator and what that lets me do is
give it information there's certain
assumptions and it will work out okay
this is what we think your savings will
be compared to Azure now obviously you
have to give it data and if it's garbage
in it's going to be garbage out but
you're going to tell it what you're
spending today so you're telling it the
types of resources you have how many you
have the specification you can add
databases to it you add all these
different types of
resource then there's certain
assumptions now it's making assumptions
about how much it cost you what types of
resource in Asia how much you pay for
electricity how much you pay for labor
you can tweak all of those then once you
put that
in it will give you an estimation of
what it thinks it's going to cost you in
Azure compared to what it cost you on
premises so you can start to work out
that total cost of ownership
so this is all about helping me hey plan
out from a costing perspective what
those various services are going to
be now I wrote this line up here before
about Azure advisor Azure advisor is a
service focused on giving me guidance so
this is all about
guidance and it's guidance on a range of
things related to cost and performance
and
resiliency that I can basically go and
look at and it will help make sure I'm
making the right things so I can think
okay there's guidance around
security I can think about this guidance
around
reliability am I using availability
zones for example am I protecting um
operational
excellence I can think about performance
and then obviously cost so these
different areas that it's going to guide
me on that I can actually go and
understand so if we jump over and just
look it's easier to see it this is
something I would recommend at least
weekly you would go and look at but if
the question was hey you need to get a
quick idea of steps you could take as an
organization to improve your security or
your reliability or cost or performance
there's a whole bunch of different
guidance it can give you Azure advisor
is probably it it has kind of the
overview of those different key areas
and things you could focus on it can
show me all the different types of
recommendations it may give me so it's
about hey shut things down resize
different virtual machines to a better
skew or other types of service to a
better skew use burstable VMS optimize
your databases circuits you're not using
whole bunches of different
things that are available in that aure
advisor so that's kind of a great place
to go where I just want some overal
guidance on I don't know where to start
what are some things you're seeing Azure
to help me with my
environment now beyond that we have a
whole set of resources in our
environment and all these different
resources we have have maybe different
metrics different logs coming out of
them things like Azure ad has bits of
information coming out of it how do I
kind of stay up to date on well what's
happening over that entire environment
so we have requirements around
monitoring
so we have Azure
monitor so all of those different
systems we talk about be it Azure
ad so Azure ad has things like a signing
logs there's audit logs there's risk
logs there's different types of logs
coming out of that I can think about
well my subscription
itself it has an activity log things
happening at the arm level related to
the
subscription I can think about within
there there's all the different types of
resources those resources have numeric
metrics well they just get stored in
Azure monitor
automatically but they also have
logs logs do not get stored anywhere by
default they do for the activity log and
the Azure
ad but the logs for a particular type of
resource do not if I want to capture
these types of logs well I have to do
something so what we have is we have the
idea of diagnostic
settings pretty much every type of
resource and note even the ones that are
built in like these and this I can apply
diagnostic settings to make it go
somewhere else so even the
metric all of these things there are
diagnostic settings available so I'm
saying what do I want to do with this
stuff and I can basically send it to
different places so one of them is think
a log analytics
workspace this is actually kind of part
of azure
monitor but it's a big log ingestion
service and a big analysis service so
it's native to Azure I can store things
for up to 2 years
maximum and I pay for the data ingested
and then the period of time I keep it so
sending it here is super useful for data
that I want to perform some analysis
against I could
also write it to a storage account
so this is
cheap but it's not that useful to
actually interact with I just got files
but it's very good for
long-term
storage and then the other thing we can
do is event
Hub so event Hub is a publish subscribe
system and where this is useful is I
could have some external tool it could
be like an external s
and it can actually
subscribe to the event so we would
publish the event and it would subscribe
to the event so it then gets them and
then can do something so it's very
useful to send it to some external
system and I can have any combination of
those
things but what's nice is when I think
about these systems so I have things in
Azure monitor native that time series
database what Azure monitor also lets me
do
is I have these various signals now
those signals could be those metrics it
could be something from the activity log
it could be something in log analytics
workspace so what I can basically do is
I can create alert
rules So based on some
criteria I want to create an alert rule
hey this metric is above this number or
this l log is
found and it can trigger an
alert once we have an
alert I can actually have action
rules at different Scopes based on the
alert that can call an action
group Action Group hey I want to send an
SMS message message I want an email I
want to call a web hook I want to call a
logic app the list kind of goes on but
now I can automate things I'm not just
hey showing an alert that would show
like my mobile app in my portal I can
have rules and I can actually tie a rule
directly to the alert an action to the
alert rule as well but separating them
out is actually nicer and I can do a
whole bunch of things automatically
now
additionally think about the services we
have and these alert rules can actually
play into here as well so if I think
about okay that subscription the
activity log there's also this
idea
of service
health because if we think about it
there's these different sets of
telemetry things about the regions all
the different Azure
infrastructure well there's there's the
health of the overall service that once
again that service
Health can actually be used as I can
create rules around this so if I was to
go look at my
subscription and I went down to help and
support I can see service
health so here it showing me a
customized view of any issues that might
impact hey the regions I'm
using um the services that I'm using the
subscriptions I have I can see up coming
planned maintenance I could see a health
history of things that have happened or
I can see there was some issues I could
see the root cuse
analysis of that I can see full tracking
of what happened within there and I can
create Health
alerts so I can actually add a service
Health alert which is an action group
hey I want to add an action group got a
whole bunch of those which do different
types of things so service health is how
can I go and see um historically what
has happened to my environment oh
service Health how can I see what plan
maintenance is coming up o service
Health um all of those things are
answered through the service health so
it's super super useful for
that now if I think about health for a
second and I got all these different
Services all throughout Asia I have VMS
and resources and I'm pay money for
things
and we talked about that shared
responsibility model and the idea that
there's a lot of things I'm not
responsible for and maybe I don't even
have any control
over I'm trusting my cloud provider to
give me a certain quality of service so
what is that so what we have is for
services we have a
service
level agreement
an
SLA and typically you'll hear that in
the form of a number of
nines and so we can think about okay
well if there was three nines a
99.9% availability that's basically 10
minutes um per week it can be down if we
have
99.95 well then that's 5 minutes per
week it can be down if it was four nines
well now we're getting down to it's
basically a
minute a week it can be down 5 9es it
would be 6 seconds 59 is near impossible
to
do but you have these different numbers
of nines and basically every
service has an SLA and all these links
remember in the handout for the full
a900 course so you can go here and
search for a certain type of resource
you can see the SLA
now it has like a full introduction
around it has general
terms has talks about service credits so
how if there was an issue if it was
breached how this impacts
it I can see any limitations that may
impact that now notice it shows me what
the slas are but a key Point here is
some services will vary depending on how
I have configured my environment so
remember availability zones are those
blast radiuses they're separate physical
buildings with isolated Network Cooling
and
electricity so what this is saying the
SL for virtual machines is saying hey
look if I'm in a certain
region and hey look let's just focus on
the 3 A's I see it's saying if I deploy
a service and I've deployed my service
that
hey it's got VMS in at least two azs
that make up that particular service
well then I can get a
99.99% SLA because hey it's independent
buildings of independent power calling
networking they have good confidence
that even if one building failed the
other one wouldn't be so if I deploy my
service over multiple AES and give me
that SLA but if I
don't if they're just in the same one I
didn't mean to do that let's go back a
sec shouldn't try to use hand on that
one but if I go back to the VM if it's
in the same a but uses availability sets
which are different racks in the same
data center well then I can get a
99.95%
SLA so that's saying well you're using
the same AZ but within the AZ there's
different racks of servers
and it's saying okay you created an
availability
set so your VMS are separated on
different racks but they're still in the
same data center but then we'll give you
a
99.95 cuz you still got some nice
resiliency at the rack level so that's
impacting the SLA I can actually get but
then basically if you start having
single instance virtual machines well
then it depends if it's premium SSD
it's
99.9 if it's standard SSD it's
99.5 and if it's using a standard hard
dis drive it's 95% which is obviously
generally if maybe if it was a de
environment that's fine but for any
production that that would not be
suitable so then as soon as you get into
individual ones well then it depends on
that type of disc so again the premium
is at
99.9 and then it was kind of the
standard
SSD can't remember what it was
99.5 so basically it changes and then
standard hard dis
Drive was
95 so the SLA may vary depending on how
I'm actually Distributing and you need
to go through each independent service
to see the details but that that's going
to vary if I want to understand what the
service the statuses of Services overall
in Azure then I can go to the Azure
status page and it will show me I can
see all the different
regions I can see this says show me the
notice the regions for aav I can see the
regions for Asia
China if we go to Americas I can see oh
I think looks good so it's a nice way to
quickly actually go and
see obviously if I use multiple
resources there's a composite SLA and
that's really out the scope of an exam
cram but obviously if I need multiple
services to work
then it increases the chance of failure
because if any one of them is out so my
SLA will get
worse when we think about features in
Azure there is an overall life cycle so
the cloud is Evergreen it's constantly
evolving this is constant Innovation so
when I think about Services often what
will happen first is it will appear in a
private
preview that's maybe certain customers
invited or you can apply
that's all about getting feedback from
the customer as well as testing then it
goes to a public
preview that's where everyone can try
out but the whole point of these is it's
kind of no
SLA and typically there's no
support and
then it goes to
General availability
or GA that's when it gets an SLA that's
when it gets support so that's the
general flow of how services are
delivered actually in a there's a
special preview portal um I can go and
check out the Azure updates blog to see
new features I could actually create a
weekly video going through those new
things now outside of
this sometimes I talked about SLA and
shed responsibilities you may want
understand a bit more about this and
there's really three key documents and
this I'm just going to show these to you
so the first document is the Microsoft
privacy statement this explains personal
data Microsoft collects how it's used
and for what
purpose then we have the online services
terms this is the legal agreement
between Microsoft and the customer it
outlines the obligations around
processing security of customer data and
personal data then there is the data
protection addendum this further defines
the data processing security terms for
online services things like compliance
with laws disclosure of processed data
data security the encryption the
compliance data transfer all of that so
you can always go and see all of these
different documents just to understand
how these documents exist and kind of
what their key points are so the Privacy
statement hey what personal data
Microsoft collects how it's used and for
what
online services terms what is that legal
agreement between Microsoft and the
customer the obligations around
processing and security of the customer
data and personal data and then the OS
the data protection am
addendum just further information on
that now carrying on the I guess the
thread of
documentation often we care about sort
of what compliance offerings does Azure
have and Azure really thinks about these
three pillars of security privacy and
compliance so security how various
defense in depth is provided compliance
Azure has a huge number of compliance
offerings so which ones apply and are
available and privacy will helping to
ensure the privacy of your data there
also might be reliability resiliency
intellectual property so when I think
about these three pillars what we
actually get to is the trust Center
and this provides the detailed
information about that security the
Privacy the policies the compliance
offerings and what I would recommend is
go and navigate around this go and look
around to understand all these different
areas one of the really useful ones is
obviously the compliance
offerings from here you can see hey look
there's these key ones
gdpr um certain ones about certain
service Assurance like how the data
centers are managed and the security but
if you click compliance offerings in the
middle it'll just give you a massive
list of all of the compliance offerings
so that's kind of a great place to
quickly go and understand um what all of
those
are so we covered a huge amount one more
section and then we're kind of done so
we talked about security throughout this
entire thing there were security
elements when we talked about the
network
guard rails um all these different areas
but there are some very specific
security things just to think about um
in general for the cloud and even
outside of the cloud we can think about
the same things on premises as well so
with security we always think defense in
depth we think layers we always want
layers so defense in depth is the idea
that we build on these different layers
of security cuz if one failed well
there's another layer that that would
protect me when I think about layers
there's the physical
security so the physical would be the
data center get into the hardware I
think about
identity and
access I want to make sure we have
strong
authentication password list MFA
auditing events sign in events I want to
capture all of
those I think about the perimeter we
talked about distrib denile of service I
want to make sure I'm protecting against
large scale attacks before they get into
any kind of environment Edge firewalls
for example I think about the
network we talked about network security
groups the way to help limit I should
only have the amount of communication
needed to do the job dis disabled by
default deny by default I allow in by
exception I want to have private
connectivity sites like VPN Express
private peering I don't really want to
use internet if I can help
it I think about the compute ideally I
want to offload responsibilities but if
I am responsible am I patching the OS do
I have antivirus do I have good
configuration do I have firewall in the
OS I think about the application layer
applications can have vulnerabilities am
I offering things out to the web I have
HTTP can someone do a SQL injection
attack um there's many types of attack
that can happen I want to make sure I'm
protecting that and then my data is it
encrypted at rest is it encrypted in
transit am I doing bring your own key so
I always think about all these different
layers and making sure I'm thinking of
protection all the way
through now you'll hear about this idea
of
CIA
confidentiality integrity and
availability so I want to make sure it's
least privilege access and only when
it's required just in time I think about
my Integrity no unauthorized changes um
using signatures to validate nothing has
been changed availability protecting
against things like denial of service
attacks now there are many different
services around Asia to help me with
this we've seen some of those but one of
the big ones when I think about just the
overall security posture of my
environment is Microsoft Defender for
cloud this was called aure security
Center you may even see it called that
in the exam but it's been rebranded to
Microsoft Defender for cloud you see
evil one and really the Microsoft
Defender for cloud or Azure security
Center is really a hub for security so
if I go to Microsoft Defender for cloud
formerly known as a security Center it
has this nice little secure score it's a
great hub for getting an idea of an
overview of how secure am I it can hook
into a large number of different
compliance
offerings to maybe I need to be
compliant against a certain type of
regulatory requirement
it has many different enhanced
capabilities there's an enhanced
security mode that gives me things like
just in time so hey I can only RDP or
SSH to a resource when I make the
request I have adaptive controls So
based on the commonly used applications
enhanced machine learning I can extend
threat protection for non aure resources
there's other Defender Services as well
I can have Integrations with other types
of solutions um from within
here that can all help
improve my overall security posture so
this Microsoft Defender for the cloud is
really this great starting
place for understanding so I can enable
this enhanced Microsoft Defender for
cloud understanding exactly what is my
security posture I get specific security
recommendations for things to focus on
but again if I turn on those enhanced I
then get service specific sets of
additional
protections and then the next service I
drew out this idea before of log
analytics workspace well there's
actually a service called Azure
Sentinel so as SEL actually sits on top
it uses log analytics workspace and it's
all about getting feeds of information
from lots and lots of services it adds
some additional connectors some of them
L had natively then it adds things like
machine learning on top of that to
understand it has a whole bunch of
hunting capabilities detection so it's
all about the idea of being a sim a
security information and event
management it understands it would take
these huge masses of logs coming in and
recognize patterns to say hey look
there's something happening we need to
do something it has queries that I can
run against all the data in log
analytics workspace to go and and find
problems but it's also a sore a security
orchestration automate automation
response tool so it doesn't just have to
say oh s's
happening it can automate responses I
can call a logic app hey look I'm having
an attack from this IP address we'll
call this logic app to go and disable
entry from this IP address on my
firewall for example go and disable this
Azure ad account it it's trying to
attack me so Azure Sentinal Prov Ides
that Sim and
saw solution as an Azure service and
it's using log analytics to get this
massive number of connectors coming in
to actually provide that for me so it's
good to kind of understand that as well
and that's it so that's everything I
wanted to cover now obviously we covered
an amazing amount of stuff what you
really need to understand for a900 is
understand
hey look this solution this resource
exists and what is its primary use case
you're not going to get asked to
configure it or do any kind of massive
Advanced thing it's just about
understanding oh this is the requirement
that's the service I would use that
that's really the the basics of it when
you take the exam relax
um take note with the amount of time you
have take note with the amount of
questions divide it up pretty evenly
don't get stuck on one question lose all
your time you can mark it and come back
to it at the end don't leave questions
empty it's better to have an educated
guess eliminate the obvious wrong
ones and then Ash is not there to trick
you things are named to try and be
intuitive to help the customer which one
sounds like the right thing you need to
protect a resource for being
accidentally deleted would I use an
availability Zone a resource Group a
network security group or resource lock
well I know it's not a network security
group it's that be Network specific
I know it's not availability Zone um I'm
pretty Resource Group doesn't sound
resource lock well that sounds like it
would lock something I'll guess that so
just eliminate obvious things and then
have an educated guess if you don't pass
the first time it will tell you at the
end where you were weakest go back and
redouble your
efforts again I would make sure you've
gone through my full 8 and a half hour
of course there's no adverts in that
it's just there to help you I would
watch this um as a quick refresher
before taking the exam
but relax um I really wish you all the
best good luck this is a huge amount of
work please please do subscribe and
share this with other people but yeah
good luck in your exam and uh take care
but